Financial conditions are easy. I mean,
the stock market is hitting new highs
almost every day.
>> We prefer to take our risk in the large
cap space. We just want to be where the
earnings are.
>> We're going to see a broaden and out. We
think that more boats are going to be
rising.
>> We see another year of above average
earnings growth next year for the S&P
500.
>> The US bond market has been the envy of
the world. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and Ann Marie
Hordern.
[music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Looking ahead to a key Fed
decision as traders position for more
rate cuts. [music] Oracle earnings on
deck with the Eddie Ardeni underweaiting
big tech for the first time [music] in
15 years. And Netflix's big deal sending
reverberations through Hollywood. But
Trump casting a shadow of doubt where
suddenly it seems like less of a given
that this deal is going to go through.
Well, it needs to go through a process,
which [music] the president did say last
night. But then he also said, quote,
"But as a big market share, it could be
a problem." The issue is the president
normally doesn't get involved in these
[music] types of issues. His DOJ though,
of course, will review this at the same
time, in the same breath. The president
was talking about how he didn't meet the
co-CEO of [music] Netflix. The
conversation went well. So potentially
he's looking at some of the other
players [music] in the arena like his
friend Larry Ellison and his son and
looking at potentially if this deal
falls through could there be another
bidder [music] at the end of the game.
Um but you saw immediately in poly
market
>> those individuals that are betting that
this was going to have a cleancut easy
approval when it comes to Washington
[music] those quickly sank.
>> Yeah 60% to 25% chance this was actually
go through and you see the pricing start
to reflect that. a question of the
politics of this with respect to
President [music] Trump, his
relationship with the Ellison's and the
potential reemergence of Paramount Sky
Dance and then the debt market side of
this, the sort of market acceptance of
this given the fact that there's [music]
a $59 billion bridge loan and a real
question of how much appetite there is
to finance M&A that seems [music] to be
coming fast and furious. Well, we've
already seen that with some others that
there has been questions [music] in the
debt market that is this just too much
when it comes to the AI AI space also
when it comes to Netflix. How are they
going to talk about [music] this? I
think for Netflix, it's not just the
fact that it's YouTube. They're going to
talk about [music] things like Tik Tok,
Disney, there are other streamers that
are going to say, "Actually, we need
this to maintain a [music] competitive
advantage." And a key focus is going to
be on the Fed decision and just how much
the Fed does make a more accommodative
backdrop for [music] these deals, for
the debt markets. on Wednesday, a sort
of lame duck fed uh chair has to come
out and say something that everyone will
ignore. But there [music] is this issue
that we have not gotten four dissents on
the FOMC board going back 30 years yet.
This could be the most split decision
that we've seen in decades. So, it's
going to be interesting as everyone
pretty much thinks the [music] Fed's
going to cut. Who desents? How many that
number is? And then, of course, what is
the rhetoric that Jay Pal comes out
with? How does he [music] talk about
this interest rate cut given the fact,
as you said, we have been in a data
desert. They are really relying on what
[music] we had before the government
shutdown second tier data and how do you
say that you are data dependent [music]
when at the moment it is still quite
foggy right now this is the last big
week of the year really it feels like
that all of them we have jobs
>> we have the jobs report okay trickling
out on uh December 16th we do have a
pretty big week of data of earnings
tomorrow we get the jolts [music] data
for both September and October or
October and November I should say uh
coming [music] out that gives a sense
leading into the Fed rate decision. We
get the employment uh cost index ahead
of that rate decision. Then Oracle
earnings uh [music] Powell's press
conference that will give us an
indication potentially of where the
dominant strain is on the committee and
then jobless claims [music] on Thursday.
We also get Broadcom earnings and a host
of auctions throughout the week. Right
now in markets, what you can see is a
little bit of a lift, an effort to get
back to those record highs after a week
of gains on the S&P on the NASDAQ
[music] with a real optimism that there
will be this melt up, the Santa Claus
rally up a tenth of a percent on S&P
futures. You are seeing copper uh
surging to record highs. A question here
how you finance the real economy as both
China and the United [music] States are
building out their infrastructure at all
speeds. 10-year yields. This watch this
space at 4.15%. [music]
Last week, we saw the biggest increase
going back to April of 12 basis points
in the 10-year and [music] Brent crude
just slightly lower. Coming up this
hour, Christian Noling of Deutsche Bank
Private [music] Bank with stocks on the
brink of record highs. Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark Global
Investments and why markets may repric
future rate cuts. And Robert Fishman of
Moffett Nathansson as President Trump
pumps the brakes on the Netflix Warner
Brothers deal. We begin this hour with
stocks rising as traders increase risk
appetite ahead of the Fed's rate
decision. Christian Noling of Deutsche
Bank Private Bank writing, "Giving the
given the positive macro environment, we
expect 2026 to be another constructive
year, albeit with continuing market
volatility." Christian joins us now.
Christian, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much. So, let's talk about 2026.
Yes, continued volatility. Is there a
sea change in where the leadership comes
from? akin to what we heard from Edard
Denny where suddenly big tech doesn't
cut it for leadership. Everyone is a
tech company.
>> Well, I would say we still count on tech
and that tech delivers earnings. We do
though expect that earnings growth is
coming down a little bit which I think
is really healthy. But of course
earnings will be very important and
those companies won't deliver earnings
in 2026 will certainly get say punished
uh and that could cause volatility in
the market. It's by the way one of the
reasons why we are saying probably for
2026 let's not be complacent and just
expect the same really positive
performance we've seen so far this year
and likely to get into year end I hope
so from that perspective that's
something to watch uh but I still think
that AI is is not a bubble I think it's
still a boom and a structural change and
that's why we are constructive for next
year as well
>> do you think that the United States is
still the epicenter of that constructive
change that was also a big part of
Edyardi's call is that the US has
benefited disproportionately to this
point and that is poised to change.
>> Well, I still look very easily at uh
productivity and that's the highest in
the US and honestly I don't think that's
massively changing next year. Look at
Europe for example, productivity is far
behind the US. Hopefully that's getting
better with fiscal policy here but to be
seen but I think to catch up on the US
productivity is very very uh tricky at
least in the short term. So longer term
maybe but it's a long way to go and from
that perspective I I think we have seen
this year the
five but then with the investments
coming in I would say that's continuing.
>> You you make a good note in in your
research about how the government
stimulus we're going to get from the
United States when it comes to one big
beautiful bill is going to be timed
after three Fed interest rate cuts. So
Christian looking at next year do you
think the Fed needs to cut any more?
Well, I think if you look at the
absolute level, I wouldn't be surprised
if we see three cuts. So, starting
probably this week with the first and
then two more into next year if you look
at a 12 month time horizon. I think that
could be justified because although
there is fiscal spending, yes, and
increasing, but uh I would say at this
point in time and you rightly said we
don't have all data yet, but I think the
US is a bit in a weaker spot. On the
other hand, something I think very
important we also say in the outlook is
inflation. So if you look at the 10-year
US treasuries, we think they could be
415 like exactly where we are right now
in 12 months time because inflation
remains a topic. So we don't see
inflation to substantially come down but
even go up slightly from 2.8 to 2.9.
That's our forecast.
>> You also think that policy will deliver
a cyclical impulse in Europe. What kind
of policies are you looking at? Because
Europe at the moment especially seeing
the data out of China is struggling.
>> That that's correct. But of course I
look at the largest economy, Germany.
Not because I'm obviously in Germany at
this point in time, but so far it was
roughly not growing, so 0%. And I do
think it could go to 1.3 to 1.5 next
year because not of monetary policy of
the ECB. There we do expect the ECB to
stay steady at 2% for the whole year
next 2026. But it's fiscal policy and
there we that's why we we see that
government spending which is coming now.
It was a bit delayed, I have to say, but
now we see that really happening, which
is good news.
>> Christian, how much is your constructive
outlook next year really predicated on
this idea of fiscal and monetary support
from the United States in particular,
but also globally?
>> Well, it's a major source of growth. Uh,
absolutely.
>> A in the US, we do see uh Germany
especially doing something. Um, it's a
lot of fiscal policy, but then the
center ranks as well. I think Bank of
Japan of course is different. We expect
two hikes there. But otherwise, if you
look at monetary policy, we counted more
than potentially 80 cuts of global
central banks. I think that's quite a
constructive environment per se, I would
say,
>> which is probably the reason why if
anyone has a deal to announce, let's
announce it. That seems to be uh the
mood of the morning, the mood of the
week, and the mood of the month. We've
certainly seen that from the likes of
Netflix and Warner Brothers. We've seen
that with the debt issuance from the
likes of Oracle, which reports earnings
this week, as well as Meta, as well as a
whole host of the other tech names. I'm
just wondering at what point you think
that it's going to become too much for
debt markets to finance given some of
the concerns about the structural
changes in this industry.
>> Yeah, I think there's a lot of
discussion about this, but I think it's
a normal development. We've seen this in
other major structural trend shifts that
companies started at one point in time
to use also debt because free cash flow
was not always enough. I think I've not
seen really some bond auctions
struggling at this point in time.
there's a lot of demand and I think
given all the discussion about sovereign
debt which is there because of all the
fiscal policy people look at also
corporate bonds and if there's an
attractive uh yield of course they will
go for this especially if it's
investment grade which we still
recommend although spreads are quite low
so if I don't see a recession which with
all the fiscal policy is quite unlikely
I think then it's still an interesting
investment and again I've not seen any
bond auction struggling at this point in
time but of course it's something to be
watched
>> just heading into Next year, Christian,
what's your highest conviction trade?
>> I would still say is gold on the one
hand to be very honest. On the other
hand, what I just said, uh, corporate
bonds looks very interesting. On the
equity side with all that fiscal policy,
uh, I would say could also be
constructive, but don't expect the same
double-digit performance. I would be
okay if if it's like single digit high
single digit, say 8 to 9%. That would
rather be our forecast. Christian
Nolting of Deutsche Bank, thank you so
much for being with us with a gold call
as people continue to look to the
precious metal even though they are
bullish on risk. It normally goes the
other way around.
>> Well, also the POC just increased their
holdings of gold in November 30,000
ounces. So 13 straight months you see
China continuing to amp up their
holdings of gold. And what this year has
taught us is that risk on individuals
buy gold. Risk off, individuals buy
gold. This is something that people
continuously want to put in their
portfolio,
>> especially due to some of the concerns
about the uh fiscal monetization that
we're seeing in a number of places.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief with Vonnie Quinn.
Vonnie, Lisa, good morning. Thank you.
[music] President Donald Trump raising
significant antitrust concerns over
Netflix's planned acquisition of Warner
Brothers Discovery. The president
warning the deal, which would combine
the [music] dominant streaming service
with HBO Max, creates a market share
that quote could be a problem. The
comments escalate pressure on
regulators, signaling a potential
lengthy Justice Department review.
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond issuing a
warning for Europe in an interview with
Bloomberg's Carolyn Hyde over the
weekend. Diamond saying bureaucracy is
weighing on the continent's growth.
>> Europe has a problem. I think they
accomplished an unbelievable thing, but
it got bogged down. It takes 27 nations,
you know, to make a decision. They have
some wonderful things, but they've gone
from 90% of the GDP of [music] America
to 65. That's not because America did
anything bad to them. It's their own
bureaucracy, their own cost. I think
[music] the leadership, MS, Mcronone,
Maloney, Stormman, I think they know. I
just think politics is really, really
hard.
>> Diamond adding the risks could have
implications for the United States.
And after a 15-year long bet on tech,
Wall Street veteran Edardi is going
underweight. The Magnificent 7. Yordani
research is now expecting a significant
shift in earnings growth, suggesting
that tech is evolving. Yardani argues
that the rest of the S&P 500 will see
improved productivity and profits
because quote, "Every company [music] is
becoming a tech company." And that is
your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank you so
much, Vonyie. Up next, affordability
front [music] and center.
>> We are now seeing the uh this
affordability problem and I think next
year we're going to move on to
prosperity. Now we are working on
inflation and I expect inflation [music]
to roll down strongly next year.
>> Former House Financial Services
Committee Chair Patrick Mckenry joins us
next. Right now, stocks inflecting
higher after a weekly gain on both the
NASDAQ and the S&P. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
pushing back toward uh record highs once
again, climbing into the end of the
year. A real Santa Claus rally [music]
potentially reasserting itself up about
a tenth of a percent on the S&P as you
do get a sense of dollar weakness also
coming back into the fray. We have seen
that sort of steady weakening as you
have seen long yields grind higher 415
[music]
on the 10-year. It has climbed 12 basis
points last week alone, which [music] is
the biggest monthly sell-off in the
10ear going back to April. and copper at
a new record with everyone buying, China
buying, the United States buying, a
buildout of AI under surveillance this
morning as prices rise in some of the
commodity sectors, affordability front
[music] and center.
>> What we're not going to do is say that
Americans don't know what [music]
they're feeling. We've been working on
it every day. Democrats created
scarcity, whether it was in energy or
overregulation,
>> that we are now seeing the uh this
affordability problem. And I think next
year we're going to move on to
prosperity. Now we are working on
inflation and I expect inflation to roll
[music] down strongly next year.
>> Here's the latest. The White House
ramping up its affordability push,
eyeing options to bring down beef prices
and address anti-competitive food prices
ahead of President Trump's trip to
Pennsylvania tomorrow. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall returns to us. Tyler, great to
see you once again. What are we expected
to hear from President Trump tomorrow?
>> Yeah, hey Lisa. Good morning. Well, we
know that this White House is trying to
reenter its messaging on domestic
issues, including affordability. And we
are expecting President Trump to tout
some of the recent actions that he's
taken, including over the weekend
signing that executive order that's
directing the Department of Justice as
well as the Federal Trade Commission to
look into anti-competitive practices or
alleged price gouging. All in a bit, of
course, to bring down food prices. We do
know the DOJ has launched at least one
investigation into one key sector. You
mentioned beef. That investigation is
looking into meat packers as the price
of beef has climbed really steadily
since the start of the pandemic. In
fact, the Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant was asked about this and how it
actually sort of continues a similar
policy under the Biden administration
where we saw that administration launch
and continue similar anti-competitive
investigations. The Treasury Secretary
alleged that that investigation was
mishandled. But I did speak to one FTC
commissioner over the weekend who told
me that some of these probes may face
some push back considering that we've
seen these agencies significantly
streamlined in a bid to reduce the
workforce. Now, Lisa, we also got some
reporting from the Wall Street Journal
over the weekend that the administration
is looking at some policy shifts. This
includes potentially reopening the
southern border to Mexican cattle
imports amid a current ban that is in
place in a bid to try to stem the
migration of a parasite that has been
impacting herds. But Lisa, at the end of
the day, it is all about trying to get
supply up, particularly when it does
come to beef in a bid to lower those
prices for consumers.
>> Tyler, when it comes to affordability,
one thing that continues to come is also
health care prices. Are we going to get
a vote this week when it comes to those
enhanced subsidies in Congress?
Well, Amory, it looks like we're heading
towards that because, as you well know,
Congress is only in session for about
two more weeks before they break for
that holiday recess. And there is a big
push to get something over the finish
line considering that those enhanced
Affordable Care Act premium tax
subsidies are set to expire at the end
of the year. And that is setting up a
really big political fight. We've seen
some uh sort of uh different proposals
put on the table. We are expecting the
Senate to vote on the Democrats
proposal, which would be for a
three-year clean extension. That is not
expected to reach that 60 vote
threshold. But there are some other
ideas brewing, including on the House
side potentially for a bipartisan
compromise that would extend those
premium tax subsidies for 2 years with
some structural changes such as an
income a different income cap. We'll
have to see where this lands. Uh Amory,
as you well know, we're watching really
closely in the Senate. Bill Cassidy, a
Republican from Louisiana, the chair of
the Senate Help Committee. He has been
shephering forward a different proposal
completely that would put more money in
health saving accounts in a bid to try
to uh help Americans with higher
out-ofpocket costs. We're going to watch
closely how that proposal evolves, but
at this point, uh, it's a it's an open
game.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
that. It's great to have you back.
Welcome back, uh, to the show. Joining
us now is Patrick Mckenry, a former
House Financial Services Committee
Chair. Uh Patrick, great to have you.
Thank you so much for being with us.
What do you make of some of the uh
noises coming from inside the White
House about some controversy about how
to message affordability issues?
>> Well, it is the driving issue. It's the
driving issue that brought President
Trump back to the White House uh one
year ago and it's a driving issue for
voters at uh uh the last election. Um
that message is very clear to the White
House and they have their best economic
messenger Scott Bessant out there
delivering what is a distinct message
for this administration. They're going
to address it. Uh they believe that they
can uh conquer it and they can actually
get to a prosperity message rather than
just uh conquering the price of things.
Um but it's going to be uh it's going to
be a tough effort uh because the the the
stickiness of inflation has impacted fed
fed policy. It obviously impacted and
the last administration was unable to do
anything uh in substance about it. Um
but the president believes they have a
very good economic message. they have to
just deliver on the regulatory relief uh
and the tariff uh negotiations uh that
that are foremost with this
administration.
>> Do you think the president himself needs
to really look at how the words he uses
when he talks about affordability?
There's this Wall Street Journal article
that a lot of aid sold needs to
calibrate his message because remember
during the Biden administration they
would tell you the economy was doing so
well but people weren't feeling it
because of how high prices were. Well,
look, the B administration was don't
believe your lying eyes. Uh, the economy
is fantastic. Do not believe what you
actually uh uh feel. Um, that is not a
winning message. It's a very bad message
for politicians uh at every level to
tell the voters that they're dumb and
they don't know what they're thinking.
Um, so you you see a few things that the
president floated that this was a really
partisan uh initiative to talk about
affordability. It was coming from the
left. Uh I think you're going to see
that dialed in uh in the coming weeks
and coming months. Uh and I think the
clear message here came from Scott
Bessant this weekend going out with
really what is a honed economic message
that they have deeply contemplated.
>> Patrick, with all due respect, you say
that it was a losing message from the
Biden administration. Do you think that
affordability is a hoax, a winning
message coming from the White House
currently?
>> No, not at all. Um, and so what I would
what I'm saying is the president is
going to hone a message that is distinct
as he does. Uh, and we're all going to
watch. His aids are going to watch how
he hones it. Uh, but no one's going to
control his message. They didn't do it
the first term. They're not doing it the
second term. Uh, but when Scott Besson
is out with a very honed, very focused
economic message, that's the person we
have to dial to. We'll see what Kevin
Hasset does uh this week and whether or
not they've doubled down on the Besset
message. Uh that is actually a much more
winning message uh than what President
Trump rolled out, which was an echo of
what Biden uh Biden did in his final
year or two. Patrick, do you think that
messaging is enough or do you think that
it's sort of imperative on this
administration to deliver $2,000 checks
or deliver other kinds of more
significant measures that make people
feel immediately like they are getting
some sort of uh immediate benefits?
>> No, the immediate benefit has to come
from the regulatory relief they're
driving to agencies, which takes time
for it to be felt. Uh the tax bill that
was signed into law in record speed uh 6
months earlier than they did it in the
first term. Those things will have
effects. But the big driver here and the
big drag on the economy are tariffs. Uh
the cost of things coming in the United
States are more expensive because of
tariffs. That does have an impact on the
economy. It does have impact on people's
lived experience. Getting that right is
the biggest economic delivery this
administration could have. That is far
better than any word uh that any
politician could uh can utter.
Patrick, do you think we're going to see
some sort of reconciliation from
Democrats and Republicans on what to do
when it comes to health care this week?
We should have a Senate vote on the uh
enhanced Obamacare subsidies. And I'm
just wondering if we're barreling once
again maybe on January 30th to another
government shutdown. I think that's the
most likely scenario is that uh we're
we're going we're we're barreling
towards uh no extension of healthcare
policy uh and then brinksmanship when it
comes to government funding. Uh these
things have not been resolved. Uh the
Democratic Party has offered uh not what
they said they would offer, which was a
one-year extension. They're asking for a
three-year extension of policy. They're
unserious. Republicans have had this
problem for a very long time on
healthcare policy. It's not that they
lack a plan, it's that they have too
many plans. And so we're seeing this
offering on the Senate floor this week,
uh, where you have multiple Republican
proposals, uh, none of which will get 60
votes. And then we see a unified
Democratic party on a singular approach,
which is continuing subsidies. I think
this is headed for a train wreck rather
than a compromise.
>> Former House Financial Services
Committee Chair Patrick Mckenry, thank
you so much for those insights. And if
Delta and United and American Air
executives were listening to this, they
are hiding under their desk saying,
"Please don't." Come on. We just
experienced these losses. And if you're
a Fed official, potentially you're also
hiding under your desk because what does
a government shutdown mean? It means
that you don't have the essential
workers going out there collecting data.
And how controversial already is the
data thus far? Because individuals are
talking about, well, the government was
shut down. How credible is this data
going to be? It's so delayed. The Fed's
not even going to have the most
up-to-date data when they meet next
week. Can you imagine? and we repeat
this entire conversation again the start
of next year. It'll be another
Washington self-inflicted induced
crisis.
>> Well, especially given the fact that the
real questions about what revenues are
coming in as Patrick Mckenry was just
talking about a real push back now with
some of the tariffs and we haven't even
gotten that AIPA ruling. That could come
early next year.
>> That can come early next year. And then
that would potentially put a lot of
corporate America in this awkward
situation. [music] Do we go and try to
get a refund? Do we wait because we know
they're going to use other tariff
avenues to make sure tariffs [music]
stay. Uh there's still some uncertainty
in 2026 even though a lot of people
think we're past peak tariff.
>> Well, it's going to be a lot of fun.
Everyone's very excited for that. Right
now, we're seeing markets pretty sanguin
ahead of the open. Coming up, Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark navigating
shifting trends in the market. Plus,
Danny Burgerer with your morning movers.
Carvana among the names jumping [music]
with new additions to the S&P.
>> [music]
>> seems to be countdown to the Fed as
futures pointed upward once again.
Potentially a [music] third consecutive
week of gains on the S&P on the Nasdaq.
You're seeing about a tenth of a percent
gain on the S&P 500, although fading
just a bit throughout the morning.
NASDAQ outperforming up almost 210 of a
percent. The Russell 2000 banking on
those Fed rate cuts up 4/10en of a
percent [music] after a tremendous
outperformance over the past couple of
weeks. When you take a look at twos,
tens, and 30s, last week we saw the
biggest sell-off in 10ear yields. 12
basis points in one week that we've
[music] seen going back to April.
Continuing that move up to basis points,
4.15%
on the 2-year, under 3.6% [music]
still 93% chance of a Fed rate cut. And
then that 30-year yield, watch Japan,
watch Europe, 4.8%. [music] How much are
we seeing this inflection higher due to
Fed policy? How much is it a global
phenomenon? And when it comes to the
global phenomenon, it is in natural
resources. [music] Copper hitting a new
all-time high given the fact that
everyone is stockpiling copper. Dr.
Copper used to be a read on the economy.
If this is giving any kind of read, it
is that everyone is building out
everything uh all at once. And you
certainly are seeing that this morning
[music] with copper traded on the London
Metals Exchange 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here are your morning movers
with Danny Ber. Danny. Hey [music] Lisa.
It's the deal that continues to be the
drama saga and it is Warner Brothers
Discovery. the latest of which our
reporting suggested that Netflix CEO Ted
Sandos met with Donald Trump, the
president, in order to, I guess, get
[music] his blessing on this deal. Trump
was asked about it at the Kennedy
Center. He not only confirmed it, but
said he has some serious [music]
concerns because it would be a large
market share. And that could be a
problem because of that. And considering
Netflix was considered the lead investor
in Warner Brothers Discovery, at least
the lead in the running, Warner Brothers
falls 1%, Netflix [music] gains 1 and a
half%. Next up, some uh different
changes of the composition of the S&P
500. We're getting uh rather Broadcom
Broadcom shares. We'll get to that
[music] in a moment. Broad, there we go.
The magic of TV. These are the shares
that are being added to the S&P 500. And
this always gets a big rally for these
companies just because of all the
passive flow that goes into the S&P. So,
you have Carvana, CR, Comfort Systems.
Carvana up as [music] much as 9%.
There's a lot of front running of this.
So, sometimes the gain isn't as big. In
the case of Comfort [music] Systems,
those shares up 1.8%. 8%. Got a little
teaser of it before. It is Broadcom.
Those shares are up 1.7% this morning.
It's [music] a story from the
information that Microsoft has tapped
Broadcom to make custom chips for it.
Broadcom seen as one of the bigger
rivals to Nvidia not completely there
yet. Even so, those shares up in the
pre-market. Lisa, thank you so much
Danny. On our radar this morning,
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zalinski
saying negotiators are divided over
territory in the US peace plan. This
coming as President Donald Trump
expressed disappointment in Kev's
handling of the deal. Some new comments
coming out this morning, Emory, from
Vladimir Zalinski as these negotiations
and meetings continue to take place in
Europe.
>> Right. He made these comments actually
to our colleagues and Bloomberg News. He
says there are visions of the US, Russia
and Ukraine and we don't have a uni
unified view on Donbos. Of course, when
it comes to Donbos, there is there was
this proposal and definitely what Russia
wants to see is Ukrainian troops being
completely with withdrawn from Donbos.
The Ukrainians say, "We are there. This
has been our territory. We are not going
to leave what we have left of this
territory behind." Silinsky also says
this, and it makes it a little bit more
interesting after Trump's comments last
night. He says, "There's one question I
and all Ukrainians want to get an answer
to. If Russia again starts the war, what
will our partners do?" He really wants
these security guarantees at the end of
the day and it's very unclear where
exactly the US is going to line up on
that. But it is very clear where Europe
is and I think that's really where he's
leaning on right now for that support
>> because that is the consistent support
that he's gotten. And it's interesting
in light of some of that JP Morgan Jamie
Diamond coming out over the weekend and
saying that a weak Europe is bad for the
US. Europe has a real problem. Talking
about the bureaucracy, a real tension
and it seems to have to do with
corporate policies in addition to some
of the international uh strength that
people are wondering how much Europe
really plays into it.
>> Right. And when it comes to Ukraine,
Zalinski is on his way to London. So,
he's going to be sitting down with a
host of European leaders. Uh this is
something that we do know that Brussels
and Washington do want an agreement at
the end of the day, but they do want to
make sure that it's putting Ukraine with
an upper hand and not all the work that
they had in terms of sanctions freezing
assets has gone to waste.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump
raising antitrust concerns over
Netflix's planned acquisition of Warner
Brothers Discovery. The president
warning the deal creates a market share
that quote could be a problem, signaling
a potential lengthy Justice Department
review. when you do see uh an increasing
skepticism priced into market
expectations of this deal going through
this morning. Meanwhile, after a 15-year
long bet on tech, Wall Street veteran
Edard Denny is going underweight on the
Magnificent 7 stocks.
>> There's a lot of competition. The profit
margins have been awfully high from the
Magnificent 7. That usually invites a
lot of comp competition and that's
exactly what's happening. Yard Denny
also seeing little reason to continue
overweing the United States citing the
large market size and cheaper valuations
among global peers. Let's stick with
that story. Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark sharing the cautious sentiment
writing for now the bullish narrative
can be found although the pinball
movement of risk on and risk off
sentiment tells us to be selective.
Victoria joins us now for more.
Victoria, wonderful to see you in
person.
>> Pleasure to be here.
>> It's great to have you. I'm just curious
what you think about what selective
means. Do you think that it is sort of
similar to Edard Denny's point which is
moving away from some of the highest
flyers and looking elsewhere for
potentially more upside?
>> Yeah, I think you have to look somewhere
else right now and we've actually been a
little bit short the mag seven names for
a while. We felt the the valuations were
too high. There was too much hype around
these. We were concerned around some of
that cyclical financing and things we've
seen. So, we've been short for a while
on those names. So, that makes sense to
do that. Trim some of those names and
look somewhere else. It's those
rotations in the market where you really
want to look. And we're just now
starting to see them. Healthc care has
been trending for a little bit, but now
you're starting to see it, like you
said, in the metals, right? And copper
and aluminum and zinc, and you're seeing
that globally. You're starting to see it
in transports. Global autos are doing a
lot better. You're even starting to see
it in home builders. So, I think you
have to start looking at some of these
areas where trends are starting to
change internally. That's where you want
to invest. And just to be clear, when
you say short magn magnificent seven,
you mean underweight, not necessarily. I
do mean underweight. [laughter] Just
make sure that people don't take that
and say, "Okay, Michael
Doll, our CIO, was probably having a
heart attack."
>> That's why I wanted to help you out
here.
>> Yes, we were underway 7. They are still
actually Microsoft still our largest
holding in our portfolio.
>> Yes. Well, when you talk about a
rotation, how much is that predicated on
a reaceleration in the US economy that
has to come with more fiscal
accommodation, with more monetary policy
accommodation? How much is that sort of
quintessential in the ongoing rotation
that we have seen over the past few
weeks? It's important that we continue
to have that rotation happening. I think
we're seeing it a little bit. You're
seeing these green shoots start to come
out a little bit. There was so much
concern for a while. Labor market
weakening, ISM manufacturing is not
good. We had Jamie Diamond come out and
talk about the cockroaches and all of
these things, right? But we are seeing
these elements. Weekly jobless claims
really aren't going as high as what
people thought they would. You're
starting to see some strength in area.
Spreads are contracting again. There's
there's this element that maybe things
could be better. And you have a lot of
stimulus coming at the beginning of next
year. Not just from the one big
beautiful bill. There's the tax
components and the R&D um components
there, but you also have from the
consumer side, you have elements coming
in and you have the World Cup. I know
the announcement was made over the
weekend, 17 billion dollars they're
saying it's going to bring into the
economy and the equivalent of 175,000
full-time jobs. So if that comes in,
then I think it gives you a little bit
of a boost in the first quarter of next
year when we might start to see things
slowing in the labor market
>> and we may be renaming soccer football
in the United States of America, which I
think a lot of Europeans were very
excited about the president's comments.
You you you sound very bullish about
2026, but then you view like the ADP
numbers and those were incredibly weak.
What are you looking at in terms of data
now given we have a very difficult
precarious situation given the
government shutdown? It's difficult
because you can look at either side of
the coin on so much of the data that's
out here and you could either be bullish
or bearish and jobless claims and ADP I
think are that's one element of that.
Yes, it's very weak on ADP. You look at
the War report where companies have to
give notifications of any kind of worker
adjustment, any kind of layoffs that's
rising. So that tells you that could be
something that's going to um to kind of
foresee lower and weakness in the
future. Let's see what jobless claims
are this Friday. It's the first time
we're going to get that in a while.
We'll see what that tells us. But
remember, it's all about consumption and
consumption is dependent on compensation
for the lower income consumer where we
are seeing some weakness. But it's
wealth effect for the higher income
consumer. That stock market, that's
housing prices. Those are looking
stronger for that element which is where
I think you're going to get the support.
If you think there's going to be a
rotation and a lot of people have have
agreed with you and we're seeing some of
it, it feels like deja vu of this time
last year. What makes it different?
>> I think you have to look at earnings. I
know there was a lot of concern going
towards the end of last year at what
earnings was going to look like. Now
we've got this really strong picture
going forward for the next four
quarters. We're looking at double digit
earnings growth. You're looking at
revenue growth six 7%.
earnings is what's going to drive the
bullish case of this narrative. And I
think you've got support there. You're
even seeing on small caps starting to
see the expectations come up there. They
reached their peak in 2022 and we're
nowhere near that level. But you're
starting to see that growth in small cap
earnings could actually be larger than
that in the large cap. If all of that
happens, that's your support. At the
same time, you have to wonder if you
have earnings that are continuing to
accelerate, you have an economy that's
doing well, you have a consumer that's
continuing to spend, and you have real
capital investment, well, doesn't
inflation come back, especially given
the fact that we're talking about
potential fiscal stimulus. How much does
that kind of make you tep it on the debt
space? I think that's exactly the key
and it's probably the reason that if I
was sitting on the Fed and not that
they're asking my opinion at all, but if
they were,
>> we are we are um I probably wouldn't cut
at this meeting this week because
inflation is a concern for me. If you
tell me our target is going to be
between 2 and a half and 3%, I say,
"Okay, we'll give it another 25 basis
point cut. We'll see what happens." Um
but it's not. They're saying it's 2% and
I don't see us getting back to 2%
anytime soon. I see that inflation
pressure being sticky. And so if that's
going to be the case, then I think you
have that element there that you're
talking about.
>> We do have auctions this week. We have
10-year auctions coming on Tuesday. We
have 30-year auctions coming on Thursday
at the same time that we have a host of
other debt sales trying to get packed in
before the end of the year. And we have
M&A announcement. When will the market
get exhausted? Right. I mean, what are
you looking for in terms of people
saying, "No mas, we got it. Thanks.
Cheers. See you next year." I'm kind of
exhausted with [laughter] the market
right now of where we've been the end of
the year. It's it's been a long year. I
think you've got a little bit more to
go. I think you've got a lot of
companies and not just tech companies.
We've talked about that, right, with the
Microsoft, the Alphabet, Oracle, what's
been going on with credit in that space.
I think that could tire out somewhat
soon because of the whole uh credit
story around capex with AI. But you've
got companies that want to get in there.
They want to issue debt before they
anticipate rates could go higher, which
I think you're going to see maybe not as
many cuts, especially when you get the
dot plot this week as people were
anticipating for 2026. That means you're
going to see yields go higher.
>> It is wonderful to see you, Victoria.
Thank you so much for being with us.
Victoria Fernandez of Across Mark here.
And for that discussion on capital
markets, Kevin Foley, global head of
capital markets at JP Morgan will be
joining us at 8 a.m. Eastern. Don't miss
that conversation. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie
>> Lisa, thank you. Ukrainian President
Fomimir Zalinski says negotiators
discussing the US brokered peace
initiative [music] remain divided over
territory. This comes as President
Donald Trump has expressed
disappointment [music] in Ke's handling
of the deal, which he says Russia is
okay with. European leaders are meeting
with Silinsky today to discuss US
efforts to reach a [music] peace deal.
The Wall Street Journal is reporting IBM
is in negotiations to acquire data
infrastructure firm Confluent for around
11 billion. The deal, which would mark
one of IBM's biggest acquisitions in
recent [music] years, could be announced
as early as today. Confluent is valued
at about $8 billion and specializes in
managing data essential to developing
AI.
The Trump administration plans to unveil
a farm aid package offering 12 billion
in assistance to farmers hit hard by low
crop prices and the impact of the
president's tariff policies. [music] The
aid will include up to 11 billion in
one-time payments to crop farmers. It
all comes amid rising frustration among
farmers on the slow pace of Chinese
agricultural purposes purchases. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Vonyie. Up next,
Netflix's deal starting to buffer.
Well, that's got to go through a process
and we'll see what happens.
>> But it is a big market share. There's no
question about it. It could be a
problem.
>> Robert Fishman of Mafet Nathan will not
be buffering. He will join us next. I
sometimes feel like I am buffering. But
here we are on this Monday heading into
the end of the year with gains on
futures poised [music] for potentially a
third straight week of gains. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> inflecting higher ahead of the uh
potential [music] Fed meeting where they
are going to potentially cut rates. 93%
chance priced into markets right now. A
little bit of a lift after two straight
weeks of gains, seeing almost a tenth of
a percent gain on the S&P outperformance
[music]
from both the NASDAQ and the Russell
2000. Seeing a little dollar weakness,
10-year yields inflecting higher. Watch
the space, especially with that 10-year
auction coming out tomorrow. Given the
fact that we saw the biggest month of
bond yield rises last week going [music]
back to April and copper reaching an
all-time high under surveillance this
morning, Netflix's deal starting to
buffer.
Well, that's got to go through a process
and we'll see what happens. It's a
Netflix a great company and they've done
a phenomenal job. Ted is a fantastic
man. I have a lot of respect for him.
But it's a it's a lot of market share.
He's done one of the greatest jobs in
the history of movies and other things.
He's uh and he's got a lot of
interesting things happening, but it is
a big market share. There's no question
about it.
>> It could be a problem.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
weighing in on Netflix's $72 billion
deal to buy Warner Brothers Discovery,
saying it could face difficulty being
approved due to antitrust worries.
Joining us now is Githa Rankenathan of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Gita, we talked
about this last week. Uh this was going
to be an albatross to get through the
regulatory hurdles. How much bigger do
they get over the weekend?
>> It definitely got uh a whole lot bigger
with President Trump. I mean there was
first the scoop from Lucas Shaw which
seemed to suggest that Netflix had uh
Ted Sarandos had actually met with
President Trump uh before the deal and
then of course you have him kind of
weighing in. Uh it this is going to be a
very very long road Lisa. There is no
doubt about it. We're going to get a
whole lot of noise. There is the
constant question looming about the two
services. The Netflix platform with over
300 million subscribers HBO Max with
over 100 to 130 million subscribers. I
mean that pretty much makes up over half
the market. And so, you know, the
question is going to be whether uh
Netflix is going to be forced to divest
HBO Max down the road. Uh but expect a
lot of lot of noise. And that that's
kind of reflected in the $5.8 billion
termination fee. One of the biggest fees
that we've seen uh so far in in the
history of media deals.
>> Yeah. And a question of how this is all
going to get financed. Keith Ranganathan
of Bloomberg Intelligence. Stay close.
We'll be catching up with you uh
throughout the day and week ahead.
Robert Fishman of Moffett Nathansson
writing, "Ultimately, we think the
likelihood of approval comes down to how
successful Netflix will be in defining
the market beyond the traditional media
landscape." Uh, Rodbert joins us now.
Robert, this is one of the most
fascinating deals because it's at the
cross-section of politics and frankly a
deep transformation of the media space.
How do you expect Netflix to spin this
to indicate that they're not quite as
dominant as the potential $450 million
million subscribers might suggest?
Yeah, thank you. So, when you look at
the market, it really comes down to how
you define it. And when you look at the
streaming market, um Netflix is actually
number two right now to YouTube. That
that's something that that not a lot of
people um really know out there. So when
when you think about YouTube and the
size and scale of of a free platform,
that's how Netflix is is thinking about
this in terms of the the the share that
they get on the total streaming, not
just streaming, but the total viewing
platform. And that doesn't even include
other short form content like Tik Tok
and and Instagram. And so really when
you define what the marketplace is,
that's how Netflix is going to look to
uh to to take um this to to the
regulatory approval process.
>> I think most people think that they're
just going to talk about Amazon's Prime,
Walt Disney when it comes to streaming
so that likes of Tik Tok and YouTube
make this a little bit more interesting.
Do you think it's going to work with the
regulators?
I mean, time will tell, but I I do think
um Netflix clearly has um a point,
right? When thinking about who they're
competing against and what the long-term
view of the media landscape looks like,
YouTube is that biggest media player out
there. That that's what, you know, my
colleague Michael Nathansson has been
writing for a long time now. So, we
can't ignore YouTube and and thinking
about Alphabet and these other large
digital players when defining the
market. So yes, within streaming and and
subscription streaming, I should say,
Netflix clearly has has dominated and
and won that war, but when you think
about the broader market overall, I
think you you have to factor in these
other players.
>> I think we also have to factor in what
the president of United States said last
night, Robert. He said that this would
be a big market share. It could be a
problem after our colleague Lucas Shaw
reported that the co-CEO of Netflix left
the White House and apparently Trump had
said Warner Brothers should just sell to
the highest bidder. Do you think the
president of the United States getting
intimately involved in this deal could
potentially mean problems?
>> Yeah, I mean there's a lot to still play
out here. I think something that that
we're quitely uh you know very focused
on right now is is Paramount Sky Dance
really done? And so I think that there's
a lot more noise that that could come
within this whole bidding war. Um
clearly Netflix has has won um in terms
of the announcement and and moving
forward with this regulatory process.
But what we're most interested right now
is is Paramount Skyance going to come
back with a either more aggressive bid
or are they going to take their bid and
go hostile towards the shareholders?
>> Robert, this feels existential and I'm
not sure who it's more existential for.
It was thought to be more existential
for Paramount Sky Dance, but suddenly
there's a real question that maybe for
Netflix it's equally existential. What
do you think? I mean, who sort of got
has the bigger motivation to make this
happen?
>> So, I think Netflix has looked at this
as an opportunistic, you know, rare
opportunity, I think, what was their was
their words they used. um in terms of
what this asset and these multiple
assets and and all of the uh premium IP
that comes with it. Think about the
Warner Brothers Studio, both theatrical
TV studio, and of course, let's not
forget HBO and all all the premium
content that comes out of that. So, from
Netflix's standpoint, they also have a
lot of amazing data that that they've
gotten from Warner Brothers Discovery
over the years of licensing that content
and seeing how it performs on their
platform. So for them they see this as a
clearly a very unique opportunity that
they have to monetize this content,
increase engagement and really you know
grow the asset some some in some
direction that they think that they
could do a much better job of um under
their own platform than Warner Brothers
Discovery could do with a subscale
platform. Yes, it it's clearly a big
platform compared to some of the other
competitors, but Netflix just takes it
to a different level for the other guys
and and you mentioned Paramount Skyance
and even, you know, Comcast and and uh
what they're looking to do for Peacock.
it does become some sort of an
existential question because those are
the platforms that need this content. We
would argue even more um to to really
help fix and and define where their
future is going in terms of how they're
looking to compete with the Netflix's
Disneys, Amazons of the world. So for
for them, we do think that ultimately
they need it more than Netflix does.
Just quickly here, Robert was looking at
City Cineark shares on Friday, down 8%,
AMC down almost 3%. Are movies dead in
the movie theater?
I definitely wouldn't call them dead,
but this is a new threat that they've
been through. Um, definitely uh some
some difficult years and have gotten
through a lot of that and most of that
on the other side. Um, this is this is a
new one. And in terms of what this means
for theatrical releases, Netflix has
already indicated um that they plan to
keep the the business operations um you
know as as it currently stands today. um
that means theatrical release releases
for Warner Brothers Discovery, but
clearly given Netflix's um own strategy
with theatrical releases. It raises
questions in terms of what that
ultimately means for how long the window
is going to be for for the Warner
Brothers Discovery um releases that the
Warner Brothers releases and um what
Netflix will look to do with that with
their own with their own um content. So,
lots of questions that this raises. Um,
so far Netflix is saying status quo, but
I think investors, as you point out,
have some skepticism around that.
>> Robert Fishman of Muffet Nathansson,
thank you so much for the insight.
Definitely Hollywood not exactly excited
about this particular deal.
>> Oh, yeah. Front page variety this
weekend. Is Netflix trying to buy Warner
Brothers or kill it? This is huge
trepidation across across Hollywood on
what a streamer wants to do with their
massive catalog and their massive
studio. This is a icon in Hollywood. But
of course, at this moment, can Netflix
really say they want to really shake it
up as they know that the main hurdle
ahead of them is getting this through
the DOJ antitrust committee?
>> Yeah, and it comes at a time of a lot of
deals. We're going to be talking about
some other deals in the tech space in
addition to that behemoth in the media.
Coming up next, Anastasia Amaroso
[music]
of Partners Group, Henry Trees of Veta
Partners, Jordan Rochester of Mazuo, and
Kathy Jones of Charles Schwab. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
The economy seems to be really solid.
>> There's going to be a lot of noise
[music] in the first and second quarter
in the data.
>> I don't think the trajectory of Fed
policy is dramatically different over
the next 12 months.
>> Almost regardless of who sits in that
new Fed chair seat, we're moving into
this era of fiscal dominance. You can
pick and choose whatever economic data
you want [music] to fit the narrative
you want to tell.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Another Monday. Good morning. Welcome to
Bloomberg Surveillance. Looking ahead to
a key Fed decision with traders [music]
positioning for more rate cuts. 93%
chance priced in. Oracle earnings on
deck with Eddie Ardeni underweaiting big
tech [music] for the first time in 15
years. And deals abounding. The latest
to Netflix's big offer sending
reverberations through Hollywood. Trump
[music] casting a shadow of doubt. Other
deals uh really coming to the four. A
question here though about [music]
antitrust and potential political
implications. Well, and the president is
putting himself right in the middle of
that. He's saying he is going to be part
of this even though historically
presidents don't really get involved in
this. This would be the antitrust
[music] portion of the DOJ that's going
to have a very long process because it
will be to the president's point [music]
a big market share. Why? Which is why
it's so interesting the way Netflix is
approaching this. They're not just going
after the fact that they're saying,
"Look, we want to compete with Walt
Disney and [music] streamers like Amazon
Prime. They're talking about the fact
that they also want to keep compete
within this more nuance newer media
space. Think of Tik Tok and all the
content that's coming out of bite dance
Tik Tok and things like YouTube.
Interesting if that's going to land
[music] at the DOJ."
>> Meanwhile, there are lots of deals,
right? So this sort of piles onto other
questions around how much the debt
markets, how much just stock markets in
general are going to accommodate the
ongoing deals. Overnight uh the Wall
Street Journal announcing that IBM is
planning [music] to uh buy Confluent for
about 11 billion. This is a tech deal.
The interest here is it is related to
artificial intelligence and data
managing. It also goes to the question
of how much is size the only weapon you
have in a battle that is heating up and
frankly facing [music] a lot of
questions about how long it can
continues with respect to AI dominance.
Well, these four years during the Trump
administration, everyone was talking
about how now is the time to get deals
done. There's going to this deregulatory
push, maybe a lighter regulatory [music]
touch in Washington DC. But of course,
when it comes to anything touching AI,
the question still remains and a big one
into [music]
2026, you look at this the Bank of
America survey on credit is this idea of
the circular financing, how much [music]
trouble is actually AI in and in 2026,
are we actually going to see the
companies that are benefiting from AI,
not just the massive players [music]
like Nvidia, basically Microsoft and the
likes? Yeah, everyone's a tech company
in Edardi's mind, which is the reason
why he is going uh to underweight big
tech for the first time in 15 years.
Meanwhile, people are overweing the
chance of a Fed rate cut, 93% [music]
chance, priced into the market right now
with Fed Chair Powell in a very lame
duck meeting on Wednesday where he's
going to get out, give some signals, and
the market will have to take it as it is
really looking toward that decision as
the hallmark event. But we're also
getting data, [music] Jolt's data coming
out tomorrow, job openings on Wednesday.
We get the employment cost uh index
which [music] is going to be key to
understanding the inflationary
pressures. We also get Oracle earnings,
jobless claims, Broadcom earnings.
That's all coming out on [music]
Thursday with a smattering of bond
auctions thrown in for good measure. In
markets, we are seeing an inflection
upward uh sort of lift to the spirits of
people hoping for some sort of Santa
rally heading into year end. Up about a
tenth of a percent in the S&P [music]
following two straight weeks of gains.
We had seen the outperformance coming
from the Russell 2000. We continue
seeing that outperformance this morning
[music] given that expectation for the
Federal Reserve. Euro dollar seeing that
uh dollar weakness uh just continuing
[music] to mount almost at 117 on the
Euro dollar cross. 10-year yields
inflecting upward once again after the
biggest [music] increase in yields in
one week going back to April last week
and copper reaching an all-time high. It
is copper's world. We're all just living
in it. Coming up this hour, Anastasia
Amaroso of Partners Group as Wall Street
looks for another winning week. Henry at
a trades of beta partners as the Trump
administration prepares to unveil
billions of dollars in aid for US
farmers and Kathy Jones of Schwab with
investors keeping a close eye on the
Federal Reserve. We begin this hour with
stocks hovering near record highs after
weeks of fluctuation. It hasn't been a
straight ride ride up. An Eastasia
Amaroso of Partners Group writing higher
highs may still lie ahead and should
volatility return in 2026. We are
prepared to seize the opportunities it
brings. In other words, buy the dip.
Anastasia joins us for more. Great to
see you. Thank you for being here.
>> Good morning, Lisa.
>> So, there is a different feeling though
heading into next year that maybe the
leadership is going to be different. Is
there anything in terms of the
opportunities that you pick up, the
volatility that you want to buy that
indicates a shift in terms of who is
going to lead 2026?
>> Yeah, that's right. I think the era does
feel a little bit different because we
are starting with you know pretty
elevated valuations very tight credit
spreads and sort of this abundance of
concerns whether it's about AI
valuations or they AI exuberance or you
know private credit even so I do think
we have to go into the year saying look
you know the backdrop for markets is
supportive the tailwinds from policy are
still there but we have to be more
selective we have to be more discerning
and so for example at partners group as
we think about underwriting transactions
we have to think about can this company
work its way through an entire business
cycle. You know, if there is a turn in
the economy, can it withstand it? You
know, we also have to think about what
multiple are we actually paying and what
is the exit multiple likely to be. Will
it actually be higher from where it is
today? So, those are the types of
considerations that you have to have
when you're investing at high altitude.
And you know I would say also when we
think about within our private equity
business for example control investments
versus secondaries we are we do have a
preference towards control investments
for example because you know we multiple
is one thing but the ability to control
the outcome of you know operational
value improvement or the earnings growth
is another and we prefer to have that
control while the secondaries discounts
for example have closed closed in you
know they're at a 13% discount for
private equity for secondaries and
somewhere closer 6% on the index level.
So that's how the preferences have
changed.
>> It's fascinating to hear the way that
you talk about this because on one hand
when you talk about opportunities and we
hear a lot of the optimism around uh
Wall Street for 2026, it comes with this
expectation of a reaceleration of the US
economy. What you're talking about is
trying to be independent of the economic
cycle. Can you sort of explain why that
is crucial now given that everyone
expects fiscal and monetary support to
lift all tides in 2026?
>> Right. That's right. Well, that is
consensus expectation. We expect the tax
cuts to benefit the economy. We expect
the rate cuts to benefit the economy.
And I also think the midterms kind of
mindset should also benefit the economy.
But that is consensus. And you know,
there's nothing wrong with consensus.
But when you couple that with those high
valuations, you know, that's why we have
to kind of think a little bit
differently. And so once again we do
develop a variety of stress test
scenarios whe you know it might be base
case growth it might be stackflation it
might be a productivity boost and we
want to invest in companies that can
kind of persevere through a variety of
those. You asked a question in your
note. What could sustain progress
towards new highs in 2026 and its policy
once again besides the fiscal impulse
which already pretty much is baked in
because that happened in 2025. Yeah. In
terms of we are expecting that. What
else do you think we can get in terms of
policy?
>> So I would say three things to that. So
first of all, yes the rate cuts are
baked in as far as the yield curve, you
know, shows you, but they're not
actually baked in as far as the economic
impact. And so we are expecting the Fed
to cut rates again uh this Wednesday. So
75 basis points all in, but 75 basis
points is on a 11 trillion of floating
rate debt that has to reset lower in the
US economy is starting to reset lower,
but not all of it has reset just yet.
You know, the other side of that coin is
you do have fixed rate maturities and
the refinancings of those that have to
take place. So for example, there's
about a trillion dollars of corporate
maturities that have to be refinanced.
So as that happens, that's the impact
that will be actually delivered to the
US economy. So that's the first thing.
The second thing is the tax cuts. Once
again, it's consensus, but whether it's
getting larger refunds that we've been
accustomed to or paying less in taxes
and also corporations benefiting from
some of those enhanced R&D expensing,
all of that is still to come in 2026.
And the last thing, and Marie, I think
you'll appreciate this kind of looking
at the political spectrum. We're heading
into the midterm elections and if you
are a Republican voter, you feel great.
If you are a Democratic voter, you feel
not at all great. And if you were an
independent, you felt pretty okay coming
into the year, but that confidence has
slumped throughout the course of 2025.
So, I do think the administration is
going to try to do something to shore up
consumer confidence, specifically of
that independent cohort going into the
midterms.
>> I'm glad you brought that up. University
of Michigan, we always joke, is very
partisan, but in January, it had a 70
rating. Now, it's at 53. It's better
than last month, but it's still pretty
weak. Do you think everything you just
discussed is actually going to change
how the American consumer feels next
year? I think the administration is
going to try likely to make moves to
change that because you can't go into
the midterm election year with, you
know, basically record consumer
confidence, record low consumer
confidence, uh, and expect a good
outcome. So, I think that's why we're
starting to hear some of those measures,
maybe rolling back some tariffs on
certain line items, maybe, you know,
providing that 12 billion slight
stimulus to the farming industry. So I
do think in 2026 we will see more
measures that are designed to shore up
that confidence.
>> A lot of that people have pointed to for
the weakening in the dollar. A lot of
that people have pointed to for the
steepening in the yield curve. Although
other people might argue that it's a
global phenomenon. How much does that
change your desire to buy US assets over
international ones based on this
question of what type of stimulus will
ultimately drive inflation will then
drive some sort of monetization of the
debt and then will drive some sort of
shift away from the dollar right well
first of all I was never personally in a
you know the end of US exceptional camp
and you know part of the reason for that
is US still has one of the lowest
corporate tax rates that's out there
amongst developed market economies we
still have solid consumer foundation and
now we have this economic stimulus
that's coming. So it's hard to avoid
that you know despite currency
fluctuation. So I think we have to have
presence in the US. Oh and by the way it
has the AI trade and innovation. But at
the same time I think Lisa what's
changed is this this notion of
localization of supply chains and this
notion of fragmentation that is
different and that is here to stay. It's
not only here because of the current
administration and the trade policy. It
is here because of COVID as well. So
what that tells me as an investor I
can't just buy a US company that's
multinational and expect that to sort of
check all the boxes you know that's why
we are big believers in regional
diversification and you know on our
platform we have probably 40% exposure
to Europe for example because there's a
different set of economic stimulus that
we expect coming out of Europe. We do
think the ECB has scope to cut rates one
or two more times in 2026. And at the
same time, Germany went from running a
budget surplus to running a budget
deficit. So that should shore up the
European economy as well. So to us, it's
not a matter of one or the other, but
it's a matter of making sure you have
exposure to both to capture that growth.
>> Are you stockpiling copper in your
basement?
>> No, not recently. [laughter]
Are you cut back? Not yet, but I think
I've thought about it. Remember when
they were trying to get you Tom and John
were trying to get you to buy oil when
it was negative zero? [clears throat]
>> Yeah. A bit of a a bit of a question
with the uh children's administrative
services when I tried to put it in their
room as Anastasia Maroso Partners Group.
Thank you so much for being with us
right now. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. President Donald
Trump raising antitrust concerns over
Netflix's planned acquisition of Warner
Brothers Discovery. The president
warning the deal creates a market share
that quote could be a problem. The
comments escalate pressure on federal
regulators. Meanwhile, Unilver's Magnum
Ice Cream starts trading today in
Amsterdam, London, and New York. The
spin-off was valued at over $9 billion.
[music] The company, which owns Ben &
Jerry's and Cornetto brands, is debuting
a month later than initially planned
after the listing [music] was delayed by
the US government shutdown. Do you have
Magnum a lot? I don't know. I'm usually
person. Oh, yeah. There you go. All
right. So, going with some soy latte
stuff. French President Emanuel Mcronone
warning the EU may take strong measures
against China, including tariffs, if
Beijing fails to address its trade
imbalance with the block. Mcronone says
it's a quote question of life or [music]
death for European industry. And that is
your bloomer brief. Up next, a bridge
for farmers.
If everything's fine, then why do
farmers need a bridge payment from the
agricultural department?
>> Because these prices haven't come in.
because the Chinese actually used our
soybean farmers as pawns in the trade
negotiations and we are going [music] to
uh create create this bridge.
>> Henrietta Trees Eva partners joins us
next. This is Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Coming into a new week with new gains
ahead of that Fed meeting on Tuesday and
then into Wednesday when we get the rate
decision and the press conference
afterwards. Right now futures inflecting
higher up a tenth of a percent led by
the Russell 2000 once again. Can we get
that rotation back underway up 4 ten of
a percent also doing better than the S&P
up to ten of a percent. a real question
of how much the Russell 2000 can keep
outperforming without the participation
of a rally in the bond space. Right now
in the bond market, you are seeing a
lift to yields across the board. Priced
down led by the mid section, right, the
10-year yields, which saw a huge
sell-off last week, continuing that
grind higher in terms of yields, priced
[music] lower, 4.15%
on that tenure ahead of a key slate of
auctions this week. We've got $39
billion of 10-year notes being sold
tomorrow. We have $59 billion of deer
notes being sold later today. A question
about the appetite here, especially
given discussion of more fiscal
stimulus. Under surveillance this
morning, a bridge for farmers.
If everything's fine, then why do
farmers need a bridge payment from the
agricultural department?
>> Because these prices haven't come in
because the Chinese actually used our
soybean farmers as pawns in the trade
negotiations. [music] And we are going
to uh create create this bridge because
again agriculture is all about the
future. You've got to start financing
for planning next year. The when things
will be very good.
>> Here's the latest. The Trump
administration planning to release a
farm aid package today offering $12
billion in assistance as farmers feel
the impact of tariffs and low crop
prices. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now. Tyler, this was widely expected
for a while. Do we have a sense of the
details of this plan?
Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. And
you're exactly right. A USDA official
does tell me that the administration has
been working on this for months and that
it was initially delayed due to the
government shutdown. But this is long
awaited aid for a key support group for
this White House. Bloomberg News is
reporting that it will include one-time
payments to crop farmers under the
Department of Agricultures newly
designed farmer bridge assistance
program. About 11 billion is going to go
to what we typically think of as crop
farmers. And then the remainder amount
of that money is going to go to those
not typically covered under this pro uh
this program such as specialty products.
Of course though this is going to
include soybean farmers which have been
hit particularly hard by the trade
tensions with China. Even as China does
gradually resume its purchases after
that agreement was reached between
President Trump and Chinese President Xi
Jinping in October. And since then, we
have seen a runup in soybean futures.
Yet prices still remain near some of
their lowest levels since 2020. And at
this point, if we look at the data,
China has only made good on about a
quarter of its purchase commitments to
the US when it comes to soybeans for
this harvest season, though, of course,
Beijing does still have until February.
Just for context, of course, this does
continue a policy that we saw under the
first Trump administration, which gave
about 28 billion to farmers between 2018
and 2019. Lisa, we will get fuller
details later today at 2 p.m. Eastern.
President Trump is holding a roundt at
the White House with farmers where he's
expected to announce this package
alongside the Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent and the Agriculture Secretary
Brooke Rollins.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for the
details there. We'll be catching up with
you throughout the day and week.
Henrietta Trees of Veta Partners joins
us now for more. Henrietta, what's your
takeaway from the approach of the
administration when people are starting
to feel the pain? You plug the gaps with
some sort of aid package or cash
infusion.
>> Yeah, it's a replay of the Trump 1.0
playbook, which is, you know, trade wars
are political. So, if China is getting
hammered by US tariffs, their
retaliation function is to go after US
farmers. So, I believe we did this exact
same bailout package three times in the
president's first term that it took him
11 months to roll it out in his second
term is surprising, but as Tyler pointed
out, it was mostly due to that
government shutdown. They couldn't get
the CCC under the USDA funded with the
backlog of cash that they could then
siphon off to farmers. So, now that the
government's reopened, they can get that
aid flowing. Um given China is well
below its purchase commitment for 2025,
we're probably going to see at least two
more of these bailout packages uh emerge
in 2026. And that's something that
Republicans on Capitol Hill will have
to, you know, explain to farmers is, you
know, a trade-off for the president's
immigration policies, for the tariff
policies, you know, higher fertilizer
costs and all those components uh that
will persist into 2026. We also have
potentially one plan regarding beef
prices about potentially letting more
cattle from Mexico come in. Henry, do
you think the administration is going to
take that approach? This was some Wall
Street Journal reporting. You know, as
cost for consumers remains at the
foreground and we go into a 2026 midterm
election cycle, your grocery price
issues are going to be front and center
all day every day along with
electricity, you know, beef, milk, eggs,
all those things that consumers are
buying every single day. So this is
another strategy where the
administration can go after you the meat
packers um try to include more trade
with other nations. Brazil was one that
got the cattle cattleman ranchers really
uh worked up uh and um you know moving
to Mexico makes sense given we're going
to renegotiate the USMCA over the next
year. There's a there's a lot of moving
parts but the White House needs to get
you know this affordability narrative
under control and they're going to have
to cover all their bases. Well, on
Saturday they called for the DOJ and the
FTC to look into potentially really
anti-competitive behavior that exists in
corporate America. This is very
reminiscent of 2023, 2024 Biden
administration when they were talking
about price gouging and shrinkflation.
It didn't work for Biden. Do they think
it's going to work for Trump?
>> You know, it's really just about getting
a message out here. I think you're
making exactly the right point and the
administration tries to do it all the
time. Consumers are getting smoked from
all ends. Whether it's health care,
housing, groceries, you know, apparel,
uh, industrial, anything that they want
to buy from a car to a refrigerator, all
those prices are up and elevated and
they have not come down from the Biden
administration or at the end of COVID
under the first Trump term. So that
persistent issue of inflation in prices
is perennially number one and two issues
of every American voter poll that's
taken from you know every every pollster
whether it's Fox News or uh you know the
economist everybody seeing that the
number one issues for the US consumer
are inflation and prices. So tackling
all these components through whatever
means they can and just even the
appearance of trying is sometimes the
most you can do from the White House.
So, it's it's no surprise that they're
repeating what the Biden administration
did as as a way to just try to say that
they're focused on affordability.
>> Well, what's Congress's role going to be
in this? We just had the longest
government shutdown in history and then
potentially and Patrick Mckenry, the
former uh finance committee chair, was
talking about how he's expecting another
government shutdown come January 30th.
Yeah, unfortunately I had to raise my
odds from 20 to 25% that we shut down on
January 30th as well. Mostly because
they're not going to find a fix to the
ACA subsidies issue. And this is on the
healthc care front. You know, you're
looking at price increases for 22
million Americans of between $200 and
$920 per person depending on your age.
So there are these price hikes coming
through uh along with you know higher
electricity bills and continued tariff
authority and you know all these all
these issues that are facing the US
consumer that keep inflation front and
center prices front and center. So
getting the government functioning to
the point where you could even pass
legislation to help them out is really a
basically a 10% or less scenario in my
opinion. The fact that they are probably
gonna, you know, potentially going to
shut the government down again at the
end of January just speaks to the
dysfunction in DC. There's so many
retirements. There's so much um, you
know, incompatibility and and anger
between the two parties and even intra
parties sometimes. I don't see a lot of
ways to get things moving from DC going
into next year. Well, Henry, just to
pick up on that point, I am wondering
how much the president is losing his
clutch over the Republican party given
the fact that there is increasing push
back, not just with respect to the
messaging over affordability, but also
with respect to the handling of Defense
Department leader uh that we've heard
over the past couple of weeks over the
signal issues as well as what happened
in off the coast of Venezuela. I'm just
wondering, do you see increasingly
hardened divisions between President
Trump and the rest of the Republican
party?
>> You know, I think there's a couple
things here. one, you're seeing about
two dozen Republicans announce that
they're going to retire rather than run
for reelection. You can redistrict all
you want, but it's not netting out for a
winning scenario for the Republican
conference when one party controls all
of DC. So now we have three major
states, Tennessee, New Jersey, Virginia,
that have held elections since Trump got
elected and Democrats are winning by
anywhere between 12 and 22 points. that
suggests a wave election year, which is
normal for any year when, you know, one
party controls all three chambers of
Congress. So, as we head into 2026, what
you're starting to see are losses, and
that means that we're already talking
about 2028. We're already in sort of a
lame duck session for the president, and
that's going to become more of the
narrative. that makes it harder for
President Trump to exert, you know,
material control on his voting members
who are going to now pivot from getting
through a pri a primary election cycle
into a general election cycle where
their challenger is not, you know, a far
right or moderate Republican but now a
Democrat and they have to moderate
themselves and that creates fissurers
within the party and you'll see that
throughout 2026. It's only going to
build.
>> Henry Trees Eva Partners, thank you so
much for being with us. Uh the idea of
another government shutdown, I'm sure
sends chills down the backs of everyone
who's ever in transportation as well as
frankly looking for government data.
>> Also those that are in that are federal
workers and potentially they're not
going to get another paycheck. Henrietta
is talking about what we're seeing in
polling. I think we should note polling
people are saying high prices still a
problem. It's been a problem since co it
was a massive problem under the bid
administration and it's still lingering.
But some of the data especially on the
heels of Black Friday show the American
consumer still has been resilient. They
are still going out and spending. Wall
Street Journal says, you know what,
they're just cranky. Not choiceful,
they're cranky.
>> Well, this is the reason why people have
some more optimistic views for next
[music] year. Coming up next, Jordan
Rochester of Missouo on the potential
market game changers in 2026. Plus,
Danny Burgerer with your morning movers.
Tesla shares sliding on the back of an
analyst downgrade. Those shares down by
1.3%. Good morning.
[music]
So maybe it really is going to be the
Santa Claus rally December that people
were expecting. [music] We did see two
straight weeks of gains, although just
now climbing back toward all-time highs,
up about a tenth of a percent on the
S&P, just grinding higher, but staying
around that level throughout the
morning. A bit of dollar weakness. Watch
the space. The Bloomberg [music] dollar
index has been slowly grinding weaker
over the past few weeks. Continuing that
trend this morning 11649 [music]
on the Euro dollar cross. 10-year yields
continuing to climb before that auction
on Tuesday. Tomorrow 10ear yields
[music] 4.15% and copper at an all-time
high 2 hours away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with Danny
Ber. Danny. Hey Lisa. We start with the
deal of the day, the month, the year
perhaps. And it is the drama over Warner
Warner Brothers Discovery. [music] Over
the weekend, President Trump at the
Kennedy Center telling reporters that he
has looked at the deal and the giant
amount of market share if Netflix buys
Warner Brothers Discovery could be a
problem. In his words, we know Ted
Sarandos of Netflix went to the
president to try to get his blessing.
Some of the most of the losses have back
have eased off. Warner Brothers [music]
Discovery now only down 7/10en of a
percent. Netflix rallies again just up
half of a percent. Uh elsewhere in terms
of moves that we are seeing uh this
[music] morning, Tesla shares falling
1.4%. 4% Morgan Stanley downgrading from
overweight to equal weight. We also have
a new analyst taking over from the
longtime Tesla analyst and issuing this
new call basically saying all the
non-autoreated news that it's already
priced into the stock so it just lessens
the upside. So again Tesla trading at
448 this morning. [music]
Uh finally wrapping things up with Core
Weef moments ago announcing that they
are issuing $2 billion worth of
convertible bonds. A couple things going
on here. One, it's just a dilutive
event. So shares tend to fall, but again
it's this concern about growing debt
piles by tech giants in order to fund
some of the AI spending they're doing.
So Core Reef shares [music] down 5.2%.
Lisa, thank you so much. Danny, just
crossing about a half an hour ago, JP
Morgan tapping Bergkshire Hathaways Todd
Combmes to head its strategic investment
group at Berkshire. Combmes helped
oversee parts of the company's $283
billion equity portfolio alongside
Warren Buffett and Ted Wesler. The move
comes amid a shakeup at Buffett's firm
as the company prepares for his
retirement. And it really goes among a
whole host of departures that we've seen
at Birkshshire Hathaway. Two sides of
the story. On one hand, whether
Bergkshire Hathway going forward post
Warren Buffett as he does enter a quiet
period ahead of his retirement. But then
a real question around the strategic
initiative over at JP Morgan that Jaime
Diamond announced. Todd Combmes will be
reporting directly to Jamie Diamond with
a key initiative that really does seem
to be a lynch pin for the bank strategy
going forward.
>> They've been talking about these
economic security concerns. They want to
put 1.5 trillion into these industries
that is critical to United States. You
think of things like rare earths
building out data centers. Individuals
that sit on this committee within Jamie
Diamond are individuals like Condisa
Rice, former Secretary of State, former
defense secretary Gates, individuals
like Jeff Bezos. They are going all in
on this and they clearly see especially
with him reporting directly to Jamie
Diamond as being a pillar when it comes
to these investments.
>> Yeah. And it comes just to put this into
perspective, Tom Cobbs is leaving uh
Berkshire Hathway after not getting the
CEO position and he was thought to be a
successor. So this kind of shifting in
the sands we're seeing across a whole
host of Wall Street firms as we do see
uh people stepping down and paving the
way to new leadership. Meanwhile, under
radar, President Trump raising potential
antitrust concerns around Netflix's
planned acquisition of Warner Brothers.
>> Well, that's got to go through a process
and we'll see what happens. It's a
Netflix a great company. They've done a
phenomenal job. Ted is a fantastic man.
I have a lot of respect for him.
>> But it is a big market share. There's no
question about it.
>> It could be a problem. The Justice
Department will be conducting a lengthy
review of the $72 billion deal and we
are seeing in poly market the odds of
this deal going through now 25% down
from 60% on Friday because the president
that last line at the very end he was
pretty much fine until he said it could
be a problem. So now everyone was
thinking potentially is there going to
be this white house that puts up a
little bit more of a hurdle when it
comes to regulatory process which the
president normally would never get
involved in. This is going to be for the
DOJ to decide if this really is
anti-competitive behavior. And Netflix
is starting to get a bit more creative.
It's not just the normal streamers like
Walt Disney. They're looking at making a
case. Look at where the media
environment right now is, which is why
this is so interesting. You have to
think of things like Tik Tok, thinks of
thing like YouTube. And on that space,
they're saying this is how we can remain
and be competitive. Yeah. Merger Monday,
meanwhile, making a comeback. And this
really has been a theme throughout the
second half of 2025. The Wall Street
Journal reporting IBM is in negotiations
to acquire data infrastructure firm
Confluent for around 11 billion. The
deal, which would mark one of IBM's
biggest acquisitions in recent years,
could be announced as soon as today.
Confluent is valued at about $8 billion.
Confluent shares absolutely surging. IBM
flat but really goes to an existential
race among uh the tech players to get
enough data capabilities to get enough
AI prowess and frankly power in order to
remain dominant and remain relevant
heading into the next chapter especially
for IBM because they're also putting an
emphasis on quantum computing. But I
think you're exactly right. This just
also goes to show because there's that
need right now, you're going to see a
tremendous amount of consolidation in
this space
>> and you already have seen quite a bit
year to date turning to 2026. Wall
Street predicting a number of market
scenarios for next year. Mazuo is out
with its Grey Swan report. The team
writing these are low probability high
impact events that sit outside the usual
base case and consensus risk scenarios.
Joining us now is Jordan Rochester of
Missouo with his gray swans. Before we
get into the gray swans, let's talk
about the really obvious sun in front of
us. What is sort of the base case that
you see is most likely heading into
2026?
>> Well, I think next year is going to be a
year where the consensus has gone into
it thinking that the Fed's going to cut
rates thanks to a new Fed chair and that
everything will be fine. We'll get to a
3% terminal rate. The one-year one-year
pricing is roughly around that sort of
level. Let's imagine it's Kevin Hasset
and he'll sway all of the the committee
to become doubbish. But what if the data
doesn't turn that way? I guess is the
sort of main risk for next year. For us,
I think the first quarter and the second
quarter before the new Fed chair
arrives, the problem for the market
might be that the the outgoing Fed chair
Jerome Pal doesn't cut rates uh and as a
sort of goodbye to markets. That might
be the the story for Q1 and Q2.
>> So, let's talk about what the
ramifications of that could be. If let's
say there are four dissents for cutting
rates uh at the meeting on Wednesday and
five that go for this idea of uh keeping
them where they are or if it's some sort
of mix of the two. How much do you see
markets seeing a massive rebound that
they don't rec or massive draw down that
they don't recover from?
>> Well, I'm sure they'll recover from it.
What's been the case for the past two or
three years now is that rates markets
have been extremely rangebound. They're
big ranges, very tradable ranges, but we
haven't really been able to escape the
idea of 3% neutral. That's the sort of
floor for US rates up to around four or
5% in terms of the highs like we last
saw uh not too long ago. That sort of
big that's a big trading range. So, fair
enough. But I think the markets are
still in this sort of financial
conditions loop where the data is so
focused uh the Fed is so focused on the
data itself that the sort of volatility
we get in economic surprises keeps us in
this uh scenario where good data equals
mortgage fed bad data equals doubbish
Fed. But the problem is data is very
cyclical. It's like a sine wave. So in
answer to your question I think the
worst case scenario is that we could see
US rates going to sort of 4.8 eight and
that's the sort of level that typically
people tend to I'm talking about the
tenure here tend to start receiving
>> when it comes to potentially these gay
swan events low probability high impact
also fantastic cartoons Jordan which
ones do you think is the most believable
because some of these seem like
potentially not exactly what is on
people's radar like Germany overheating
>> yes indeed the gray swan is the close
cousin of the black swan black swan is
something that's truly unforeseeable uh
the gray one actually something that you
can foresee, but it's perhaps a low
probability, high sort of impact. And a
few of them are actually quite likely.
Some you might even argue should be your
base case. It's just a risk for next
year we need to be aware of, which is
the UK. I think that stands out. It's
possibly one of the most likely ones in
our list, which is that the UK replaces
Kier Stalm as prime minister and
Chancellor Rachel Reeves would also be
out the door as well and that the Labor
Party would go through an internal sort
of fight for the direction of policy.
Does it turn left even further left or
center or do the centrists win? And that
would be a big problem for the UK guilt
market. So I'd say of the list of 10
that we have, that's probably the most
likely one to watch out for.
>> You also talk about cockroaches in the
woodwork, private credit cracks emerge.
Haven't we already seen that? How
concerned are you about really that
metastasizing though into 2026?
>> Personally, I'm not that concerned about
it. Um I'm not an expert on the credit
market though. You have to ask the
credit analysts. But if you look at the
sort of impact from it when Jamie
Diamond made his comments about
cockroaches in the woodwork, I mean the
news count went through the roof on the
topic. Uh the big impacts uh for private
credit if you look at the sort of
indices that track it or regional banks
in the US which are also hit, they've
pretty much recovered back to the way
they where they were. So the market
saying actually it's not too big of a
risk for now, but it's definitely got to
be on your radar.
>> How about the idea of this peace deal
between Ukraine and Russia? We've been
hearing mixed messages and this morning
there are these meetings ongoing between
Vodimmer Zilinski and European peers.
I'm just curious how much you think that
the market is discounting the chance
that there will be no peace. There will
be no resolution between these two
countries.
>> I think by this year end the market's
got very low expectations. Luckily for
us, we have the poly market numbers to
work with. It's roughly 50/50 whether we
get a deal by the end of next year. And
it would matter a lot for Europe because
you'd see the market start to price in
sanction relief for Russia down the
line. Even though it probably wouldn't
be immediate. So natural gas prices,
which are already falling quite a lot in
Europe by the way, whilst they're rising
very rapidly in America, you'd see
natural gas prices come down, oil prices
come down, the euro would appreciate. We
could be talking 125, 130 in the Euro
dollar rate because the terms of trade
would improve. And reconstruction as
well. Uh it's not just Ukrainian fixed
income that's trading off the back of
this, but you could see uh the likes of
Poland and Hungary outperform and as
well as Germany as countries that will
be helping to support that
reconstruction effort.
>> Jordan Rochester of Missouo, thank you
so much for being with us this morning
as you look ahead to the Grey Swans uh
the unexpected events. There are many,
I'm sure it should be another exciting
year. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here are is your
Bloomberg brief. Wall Street veteran Ed
Yardeni is going underweight on MAG7
stocks after [music] a 15-year bet on
tech. The Ardeni research now expecting
a shift in earnings growth, suggesting
that tech is evolving. Denny argues that
the rest of the S&P 500 will see
improved profits because quote, "Every
company is becoming [music] a tech
company." Meanwhile, China's trade
surplus exceeding $1 trillion for the
first time [music] despite a plunge in
US shipments, risking a backlash from
markets flooded by goods from the
world's biggest manufacturer. Chinese
exports rising nearly 6% [music]
from a year earlier. The surplus shows
Beijing's struggle to rebalance its
economy away from dependence on foreign
demand. And frankly, the [music] rest of
the world's struggle with this
imbalance. And Southwest Airlines is off
the hook for a Biden era fine. The Trump
administration is waving an 11 million
penalty over its 2022's [music] holiday
meltdown. The fine was issued after it
canceled nearly 17,000 flights and
failed to provide fast customer service
and refunds. That's your Bloomberg
brief. I have to say, [music] what do
you expect if you get delayed on the
tarmac for 3 hours? Or if you say get
stranded for 6 hours and then have to
spend the night at a hotel? What do you
need to make yourself feel whole? Well,
I'd be very I'm always very annoyed when
I'm stranded. I hate spending time in
the tarmac. But yeah, I think you want
your money back. We should note the
entirety of this civil penalty was $140
[music] million. So, it's the last
trunch that's going to the Treasury
Department that they're waving, but I
think consumers [music] hate this and
they just lit want their money back.
Maybe some more. I I don't think $5 to
spend at the terminal [music] for some
meal and a water is going to cut.
>> At least some string cheese up next. An
unbalanced economy.
>> We look at the economy, right? And it's
kind of running on a two-legged stool. I
think there's almost as good of a chance
that they they don't hike don't cut as
as they cut, you know, 50.
>> Kathy Jones of Schwab Center for
Financial Research joining next. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> bleeding higher ahead of the Fed
decision on Wednesday, as well as a key
[music] set of data that actually gives
some more real-time sense of the jobs
market as well as jobless claims. Right
now, you're seeing a gain, a lift to the
market, near session highs, S&P futures
up more than a tenth of a percent.
Russell 2000 nearing about a half a
percent gain. Meanwhile, in the twos,
tens, and 30 space, you do see a bit of
a decline in price increase in yields,
although back from earlier highs in
terms of how much the yields have risen.
10-year yields in particular. Watch this
space [music] after last week. We saw a
12 basis point increase, which is the
most since April. Continuing that move,
although uh less than two basis points,
4.15%. [music]
Watch this auction coming out tomorrow.
$ 39 billion of 10-year notes [music]
being sold amid a host of other supply
in the corporate space as well. And
Amory, check out what's going on in
copper. Dr. Copper was supposed to
indicate that things are going really
well in the economy if it's going up and
really poorly if it's going down. Right
now, we're seeing copper up 33% year to
date at record highs and continuing to
build momentum. Absolutely. Last week,
the story really was about people
frontloading ahead of potential tariffs
[music] from the US administration.
Today, it's all about China. China once
again saying domestic growth is a top
economic priority. Well, if that really
is going to be the case for China, then
that means things like copper are going
to do really, really well.
>> And everybody seems to want to pile into
metals that could be used in the
buildout of artificial intelligence.
Under surveillance this morning, an
unbalanced economy.
>> We look at the economy, right, and it's
kind of running on a two-legged stool. I
think there's almost as good of a chance
that they they don't hike don't cut as
as they cut, you know, 50. The US
economy is on some, you know, um, weak
footing. So, you could be in a situation
at any point in the next 6 to 12 months
where you do get a leg lower, uh, in the
job market and the economy. And in that
case, you know, the Fed's not going to
cut twice, right? They'll probably cut
four times.
>> Here's the latest. Markets expecting a
divided Fed to cut interest rates this
week by a quarter point despite growing
inflation concerns. is Kathy Jones of
Schwab writing, "We expect 2026 to be
another good year for fixed income
investors. However, yields that are
lower and less room for rate cuts will
mean less robust returns." Kathy joins
us now. Sounds like a coupon clipping
kind of gear. Kath, thank you for being
with us. I'm just wondering what the
limit right now for the Fed really is.
Peter Shear over the weekend was talking
about how maybe the Fed has a lot more
room to cut than people think because of
some of the new personnel on the central
bank. Do you disagree?
Well, I think the issue is, Lisa, that
you can cut aggressively at the short
end of the yield curve, but you can't
make 10-year or 30-year yields go lower
if the market doesn't believe that
that's the appropriate policy. And so, I
I think that's one reason we're seeing
the yield curve continue to stay steep
and and steepen a bit from here because
there's a question of how much is
appropriate to cut. whether you have
people who are biased to cut or not, um
the market's going to decide whether
that's the right decision or not.
>> At this point, do you think that the
increase that we've seen at the longer
end of the yield curve is because of
rate cut expectations or do you think
it's because of the global dynamics with
what's going on on the Bank of Japan
side of things, for example?
>> Well, I think they're all contributing
factors. Um, Japan is helping to kind of
pull long-term yields up uh on a global
basis and obviously we know Japanese
investors are big investors in US
treasuries. So that is a factor to
consider. We've had a weaker dollar and
then we have this mixed data where you
know you have sort of a two-tier economy
where higher income income consumers
continue to drive consumption keeping
the economy moving along. We're going to
have some fiscal stimulus coming in with
the expensing that will boost probably
corporate investment, some tax cuts for
some part of the economy, but then you
have lower-end consumers who are getting
hit uh with higher prices and uh you
know cut back in benefits. So you you
kind of toss it all in and I think what
you say see at the long end is this risk
that inflation stays elevated or just a
higher term premium to account for all
the risks that are out there.
>> Do you think that this is a term premium
issue or do you think that this is a
supply issue? The idea that not only is
the Treasury selling a whole host of
debt but you also are getting incredible
corporate issuance at the same time.
>> Yeah, it's a lot for the market to
absorb. So again, I don't think it's an
either or. I think there's two things
going on here. Term premium, you know,
accounting for all those risks. And then
you do have the prospect not not just of
supply right now, but long-term supply
because of rising fiscal deficits and
and very little attention to to
addressing that. And so the market is
just um increasingly building in a risk
premium in terms of of higher yields to
account for all of those factors.
>> Kathy, what about the fact that we have
this changing of the guard at the Fed?
Last week, the Financial Times had a
story that the Treasury Department went
out, talked to bond investors, and bond
investors were lukewarm or downright
concerned about a Kevin Hasset
chairmanship. Do you think the bond
market's going to actually get a vote?
>> I don't know. That's a good question,
Amarie. I, you know, I think my the the
bond market is important in terms of how
the Fed proceeds. um if there's not a
lot of confidence in the new chair or in
the composition of the entire uh board
then uh the bond market's is going to
rebel and I think we're we're sort of on
the edge of that. So it's not only it's
not probably even about Kevin Hasset per
se. It's more about appointing someone
who seems to um who whose sole purpose
for being appointed is to lower interest
rates. That's not how, you know, the
market likes to view the Fed chair or
any member of the Fed. They like to view
them as people who are going to make
decisions based on the data, not just to
please the administration. And so,
whoever's put forward under the the um
the belief that their qualification is
that they're in favor of rate cuts is is
going to get a lukewarm reception. And
then we have the story that they're
talking about changing the rules around
Fed presidents
um and if that would open the door to
changing who's who's on the board of
governors and and who will be voting
members coming up. So all of that's in
the mix and I think the bond market's
kind of nervous about it
>> given what you just outlined and also
the fact that we have seen dissent at
prior Fed meetings. It's a deliberative
body, but we have seen defense uh
descents. Do you think it's going to be
much harder for the market to digest
what the Federal Reserve will be doing
next year?
>> Um, you know, I think the the dissents
are healthy and and a good thing. Uh,
and probably though creates more
uncertainty than we've had for a while
in terms of policy setting. Uh, but I
think that I think the the market's
going to deal with it just fine. um
we'll probably see a bit more volatility
because we are seeing more dispersion um
of views at the Fed. But I think the
market's fine with that as long as it's
uh you know well explained uh well
signal to the market that yeah we have
some members who think there no more
rate cuts are appropriate till inflation
comes down. You have some members who
think we should be going to 3% or below.
It's okay as long as it's it's well
communicated and well signaled. So
Kathy, when you talk to clients about
what to expect for 2026, how much does
it go something like expect to clip
coupons, stay neutral, stay mid uh mid
part of the curve, and just sort of stay
the course until you get some more
clarity?
>> Yeah. I mean, it's a kind of a boring
message, but I always tell our clients,
your the bond allocation is supposed to
be kind of boring, right? It's primarily
there to generate income as sort of an
offset to the the potential volatility
and equities and other asset classes. As
long as it's doing its job and
delivering solid income, um then I and
not not putting you too much at risk on
either either kind of tail risk, then
it's doing its job and it's a good
thing.
>> Kathy Jones for of Schwab Center for
Financial Research, thank you so much
for being with us this morning and
talking about uh just doing your job.
some changing of the guard on Wall
Street this morning that we did want to
get back to. JP Morgan has hired
Berkshire Hathway's Todd Combmes as the
head of its strategic investment group
as well as an adviser to uh some of the
strategic investments of the bank
reporting directly to Jamie Diamond. He
previously had been on the board of
directors of JP Morgan. He has stepped
down from that commitment. It just
highlights how some of these companies
on Wall Street are seeing a real
shifting in the guards as the leaders as
the founders step down. We have of
course Warren Buffett who is planning to
retire. It really does highlight though
how important the strategic investment
group is for JP Morgan at a time where
they're looking for ways to invest in a
real earth's real minerals and defense
capabilities of the United States.
>> So the numbers that Jamie Diamond had
outlined about this initiative is 1.5
trillion into these industries in the
next 10 years. He's saying that's 50%
more than they had expected. And this
individual um of course Todd Combmes is
going to be a part of that. They're
talking about defense, aerospace,
healthcare, energy, everything that you
see basically play out right now in the
financial markets. Everyone that's
overweight and these stories that are
going to continue. Jamie Diamond clearly
making a huge push. And I think it's so
interesting the mix of people that sit
on this board. It's not just individuals
that are veterans in Wall Street in the
business space. It's also individuals
like Condisa Rice that can really
identify what the national security
concerns risk are globally and where to
invest in the United States to fend off
those concerns.
>> Yeah, succession meets West Wing and
this seems to be where we are at right
now. Coming up in the next hour, don't
miss this. Kevin Foley of JP Morgan who
leads that capital markets group as he
talks about M&A. Pittsburgh airport CEO
Christina Casodus and Sevita Subermanium
of Bank of America as we see a lift
ahead of a key Fed decision later this
week. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
Financial conditions are easy. I mean
the stock market is hitting new highs
almost every day.
>> We prefer to take our risk in the large
cap space. We just want to be where the
earnings are.
>> We're going to see a broadening and out.
We think that more boats are going to be
rising.
>> We see another year of above average
earnings growth next year for the S&P
500.
>> The US bond market has been the envy of
the world.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. With stocks inching back
toward record highs with traders
anticipating a Fed rate cut on
Wednesday, still some key employment
data coming up. It's Merch Monday once
again, potentially with a tech move and
of course that big Netflix announcement
that's roing both Hollywood and
Washington DC and a key question of
affordability with President Trump
speaking in Pennsylvania tomorrow with
markets clearly anticipating more fiscal
stimulus. This to me is the question.
How much is [music] this the bet heading
into 2026? The sort of sweet combination
of Fed rate cuts, fiscal stimulus with
affordability front and focus.
>> Well, that's what the bulls on Wall
Street are really banking on. We do know
that some of that fiscal impulse is
going to happen when the one big
beautiful bill tax refunds that will
come down the pipe. It's those [music]
extras that this administration is
focused on right now because they're so
concerned with the midterm elections.
His advisers according to the Wall
Street Journal having this almost come
to Jesus moment with the president. The
way you talk about affordability, you
need to start to recalibrate. You don't
want to make the same mistakes that the
Biden administration do. They had a
great quote from former Senator Joe
Mansion basically saying you can't tell
the American people it's sunny and it's
roses when it's pouring raining outside.
We were just talking about how it's
merger Monday or deals Monday. We just
got the official confirmation that IBM
is planning to buy Confluent for $31 per
share in cash. [music] It's for about 11
billion valuation. And the Wall Street
Journal had reported uh that IBM was
planning to buy this data manager
related to artificial intelligence as we
do see the ongoing tieup in the tech
space in the media space in the material
space and this is ongoing and we have an
amazing guest to talk about all of that
coming up in just a minute. Right now we
are looking ahead to a week full of
data. We get Jolts job openings
tomorrow. [music] We get job auctions in
terms of the Treasury Department,
Treasury auctions coming out today and
tomorrow and then again on Thursday. And
then of course we get jobless claims on
Thursday after that Fed meeting. Coming
up this hour, we've got Kevin Foley of
JP Morgan Securities with stocks looking
to build on backtoback weeks of gains.
Pittsburgh Airport CEO Christina Casades
following the debut of their new
terminal and Sevita Supermanium of Bank
of America expecting tepid returns in
2026. We begin this hour with stocks
steady uh inching higher heading into a
pivotal week for the Fed with more M&A
announcements pouring out. The latest
being the IBM announcement. Kevin Foley,
global head of capital markets at JP
Morgan Securities joins us now. Kevin,
so good to have you in studio. Thank you
for being here.
>> Oh, good morning. Thank you for having
me.
>> It is quite the deals Monday and it has
been over the past number of weeks and I
want to get your take. Are we building
up or is this the crescendo? Right. Is
this something that's heading into a
year that is going to be massive or are
people getting in for a small window
that they see is a good positive one for
them?
>> We we think it's the start of a ramp.
We've seen the activity building
throughout the course of the year. It
has showing no signs of letting up. In
fact, uh it feels like we're sprinting
to the finish as you point out and I
refer to that as December 31st. But as
we get into January, we don't think the
fundamentals of what's driving this have
changed. We continue to have a resilient
economy. We certainly have the secular
drivers of AI. Um, you continue to have
money uh readily available to finance
these deals and there's just increased
confidence of wanting to put capital to
work from both the buy side as well as
when you look in the boardrooms the
willingness to do strategic things as
we've seen. We we expect that's going to
continue.
>> Why why now I mean we saw this for
example earlier this year also still
credit financing was pretty loose. All
of a sudden now everyone's rushing to
market over the past two months.
>> Well, earlier this year we had a level
of uncertainty out there with this
geopolitical picture changing in policy
in in Washington. There's increased
confidence and comfort around that. You
put that with the healthy balance sheets
and continue to see robustness in
earnings as well as you have strategic
things that have to be done. We've been
quiet for several years. It feels like
that is a
environment now that wanting to address
some of those strategic issues that
companies are facing.
>> Do you think that the debt market is a
more fertile land for fundraising or the
the equity market?
>> I'd say both, right? The it it sort of
it both are very strong. We continue to
say the same fundamentals that are
driving both the debt and equity markets
are what supporting this M&A
environment. You continue to have
monetary policy that's accommodative.
you have physical policy that is
accommodative. You're looking at um
several years within the debt markets
where we've had heavy refinancing
activity. So, we've been recycling a lot
of capital. And then in the IPO market,
we've had a der of activity. It has been
building in certainly in the back half
of this year. We're going to be up 25
30% year-over-year. We expect that's
going to continue into 2026. Do you
think there's been a rush because there
was an emphasis on this administration
when it comes to deregulation?
>> It's certainly been a boost. Would I say
it's a rush? But it's been a boost. It
that that is a impetus for sure. You
have a pro business administration out
of Washington. And I think that when we
came into the year, I remember hearing
one CEO said, "Hey, anything's possible.
We're looking at a lot of different
things right now.
>> Anything's possible." We've been talking
all morning about Netflix and Warner
Brothers. The president himself saying
it might be a problem. The DOJ, of
course, is going to look at it, but do
you see the M&A landscape changing next
year in terms of which industries and
sectors?
>> I think it's going to be pretty
broad-based. I mean, certainly with what
what you have happening in the
technology space with the AI, that's
going to continue to be a driver. We
expect healthcare to be active but we
are seeing that broaden out when when
you look at the focus on supply chains
and manufacturing it expect more
activity there and we're even seeing
increased activity levels in the
consumer space. So we it's going to be
broad base but you definitely have some
core secular trends that are going to be
drivers.
>> How important is it for your corporate
clients to see exactly what antitrust
regulators do with a deal like Netflix
bid to buy Warner Brothers to get a
sense of how they're going to position
going forward? I it it's always you're
always taking a gauge of what the
antitrust environment is like. But like
any deal, it's going to go through its
regulatory approval. You you look at
each of those outcomes and you use that
as a temperature check. But we expect uh
the environment from that standpoint
continue to be supportive.
>> How much do you see debt investors and
the other side starting to push back?
Not necessarily with respect to the
Netflix deal because that hasn't
necessarily been financed through that
market yet, just the bridge loan, but
really in the AI space in particular,
the fact that there have been these glut
of sales that have just, you know,
overwhelmed [snorts] the market. Things
have been pretty good so far. Have you
seen any kind of push back at all?
>> We haven't seen push back yet, but
there's certainly caution, right? You've
got a shifting landscape and we're all
trying to figure out how AI is not only
going to it's certainly going to change
the world, but who are going to be the
winners in that, right? and trying to
understand who are going to be the
leaders in that what technology is going
to win out uh how it is going to form
itself how a revenue model is going to
come out of it. You know the key
question the any investor whether debt
or equity is going to have right now is
are the efficiency gains and the growth
in the sector going to happen as quickly
as expected. Right now there's a lot of
optimism around that but there's
certainly some out there having some
caution around it. A lot of people liken
this period of time to the telecom debt
boom, to the energy boom, to some of the
other booms, the the physical world that
was financed by debt markets. And some
people would say this is what the debt
markets are for, right? This is what
they have grown up to do. So it's not
necessarily a sort of a negative. It's
really the function. At the same time,
there always is the aftermath and it
always is painful. I mean at what point
are you advising clients on how to avoid
that period of time when you do have
changing technologies and you do have
inevitably overinvestment?
>> Well, depending on who you're advising
from a client who's an issuer or a
borrower, you're certainly going to say
take money while it's there and take
advantage of a positive backdrop. when
you compare it to earlier uh secular
trends, right? In terms of whether the
fiber and energy, you know, this one is
is interesting because you have a lot of
robust players in the space who have got
very healthy balance sheets and while
they're using the debt markets to
finance this stuff, they don't
necessarily need to, right, given the
cash on their balance sheet. So, this
one's a little more a little different
than what we've seen historically, but
we think the debt markets are going to
continue to be there. And as with any
emerging trend, they're going to
continue to be suspect about how
technology is going to develop and who
are going to be the players in that.
>> You sound so bullish in this space and
for next year. What is your biggest risk
though?
>> Biggest risks are one the efficiencies
and the growth in AI doesn't happen as
quickly as expected, right? We are
certainly optimistic about that, but
that could that is to be determined. You
certainly could situ see a situation
where inflation stickier than expected
and we don't see the same support out of
monetary policy the markets expect and
then certainly geopolitical while we've
seen progress on that front there's
still a level of uncertainty on that and
then I always like to note the known
unknowns right there it's usually
something that we don't have fully on
our radar screen that derails us and
that's the thing you want to worry about
the most
>> when you look at inflation it has been
especially in some areas sticky do Do
you think that this trend, this M&A
trend, what the work you're doing can
continue, which is hovering at 3%.
>> Yes, it can continue. I think that the
the the capital is out there. When you
look at the amount of capital that is in
the system, liquidity, I go back to the
debt market. You look at we've had
elevated activities the past couple
years, but 75% of that activity has been
refinancing driven. So, we've been
recycling a lot of that capital. So,
from a liquidity standpoint, it's there.
And certainly there's a lot of strategic
needs to be doing things.
>> Kevin JP Morgan's making a lot of big
headlines this morning in particular
with a big hire Todd Combmes who is
formerly one of the leaders over at
Berkshire Hathway thought to be a
potential successor to uh Warren Buffett
as he retires. He is heading over to
head the strategic uh investment group
and it I'm sure works closely with your
group as well because this is going to
be key aspect of how you deploy capital.
How do you expect this group to be
really evolving and and Todd Combmes
coming to the bank?
>> Well, first we're ecstatic to have Todd
coming aboard. I mean, have someone of
his caliber in addition to the external
advisory council that's been formed. As
Jamie has noted in his our announcement,
this is a an incredibly strategic of
strategic importance for us as an
institution as well as as a country. So,
you know, when you look at where we're
going to focus, we're going to focus on
aerospace and defense, energy, frontier
and strategic technology, uh, supply
chains, manufacturing. So, a lot of the
things that we've been talking about
what are going to drive M&A activity
where it's going to be also be driving
the investment opportunities. So,
there's going to be an emphasis on those
things. Um, it's going to present a lot
of opportunities for us. The the
response even prior to today has been
amazing. We've been amazed the amount of
inbounds we have. We we expect we're
going to be very busy uh and and we're
certainly prepared to uh commit a lot of
capital.
>> Do you think that the $1.5 trillion is
underalling the actual amount?
>> Could be. [laughter]
>> Kevin Foley of JP Morgan Securities,
thank you so much for being with us this
morning. We really appreciate it. It
does seem like a really key moment and
frankly the M&A pipeline is just off the
hook from everyone who we speak to and
we're certainly seeing that into year
end
>> and that 1.5 is 50% increase from what
they already said they were expecting to
spend. So if it's going to be more than
1.5 but again it is over 10 years it's a
lot of capital going to these really
critical industries [music] defense
healthcare AI TBD.
>> Yeah exactly right now let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here are your Bloomberg briefs.
IBM set to acquire data infrastructure
firm Confluent for $31 a share totaling
around $11 billion. The company putting
out a statement saying the deal will be
funded by available cash on [music]
hand. Confluent is valued at about $8
billion and specializes in managing the
data essential to developing AI.
Confluent shares up [music] 27% this
morning in pre-market trading. President
Donald Trump raising antitrust concerns
over Netflix's planned acquisition over
of Warner Brothers Discovery. The
president warning the deal creates a
market share that quote could be a
problem. The comments escalate pressure
[music] on federal regulators and
President Trump's top advisers have been
tasked to find a way to lower beef
prices. This according to the Wall
Street Journal. This is steak and ground
beef have hit record highs this [music]
year and the administration tries to
bring down the cost of food. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Coming up next, the
morning calls plus Pittsburgh airport
CEO Christina Casades on a new era for
air travel. Hopefully it does not
include more government shutdowns.
That's my editorializing. That's next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
It's those rotations in the market where
you really want to look and we're just
now starting to see them. Healthc care
has been trending for a little bit, but
now you're starting to see it, like you
said, in the metals, right, and copper
and aluminum and zinc. [music] and
you're seeing that globally, you have to
start looking at some of these areas
where trends are starting to change
internally. That's where you want to
invest.
>> That was Victoria Fernandez of Cross
Mark as we look ahead to potentially a
volatile 2026, but nonetheless one that
a lot of people are optimistic on. The
optimism building this morning as
[music] we do see futures higher pretty
much across the board led by the Russell
2000. And that rotation continuing to
build steam [music] at least this
morning up about a half a percent almost
two potent of percent gain on the S&P 2
and 30s seeing a different story a
selloff in the bond space taking hold
[music]
particularly after what we saw last week
although uh backing away from some of
the earlier losses but now an unchanged
30-year 10-year yields were almost 416
now 414 up less than one basis point
time now for the morning calls first up
wed bush raising its price target in
Apple to $350, [music] expecting 2026 to
be the year it enters the quote AI
revolution. Those shares lower by just
about a tenth of a percent. Up next,
Benchmark downgrading Marvel to hold,
saying it lost to Amazon's Tranium
Designs to [music] its Taiwanese
competitor. Those shares lower by 7%.
And finally, Morgan Stanley downgrading
Tesla to equal weight, saying its
non-auto catalyst path is already priced
in. Those shares lower 1.4% 4% ahead of
the market open. Sticking with
transportation, Pittsburgh International
Airport's brand [music] new $1.7 billion
terminal receiving major attention with
its full-scale overhaul transforming a
[music] number of features from
passenger experience to security to
energy independence that many say could
become a case study for modernizing
airport design. We are all excited about
that. Joining us now is Pittsburgh
International Airport CEO Christina
Cassot. Christina, thank you so much for
being with us.
>> Thank you for having me. And I know that
we all are excited about renovations,
especially as we await what's going to
happen at JFK here in New York City.
>> Fingers crossed. Yeah, fingers crossed
that we actually can get an Uber without
having to take a train. I am curious
from your perspective,
>> how difficult it is to really get a
renovation underway given the sort of
cost, the labor, the [clears throat]
difficulty and disruption uh in terms of
some of the passengers coming in and
out.
>> Well, first of all, it is uh I
appreciate you pointing that out. It's
it's not easy and when you are as we say
operating on the live patient you have
to make sure that everything is going to
work. So operating an airport while
you're building a new one is is
incredibly complex. U we are really
lucky in Pittsburgh we have an amazing
labor force and we we actually hit the
beginning of the airport right as they
were coming off creating the u building
the shell cracker plant. So we had a
workforce ready to go for work. Uh but
it's a it's a lot of work. I mean,
design, planning, contracting, um, and
the volatility for us, we were doing it
right during, uh, COVID, so it made it a
little trickier, uh, to make sure that
we were able to get everything we needed
when we needed it.
>> Having gone through this and Lisa's
point to JFK, what's the benefits of
just rebuilding a brand new structure
over retrofitting old terminals?
>> It depends on what you have for space.
We are, we sit on 8,800 acres. we had
the room to be able to create a new
landside terminal while we operated and
we didn't really interfere the existing
passenger operation. Um we were able to
take construction vehicles and put them
onto uh actually a taxi way which we
repurposed so we didn't have any
construction vehicles on our roadways.
Um it it's it's
a lot of moving parts and I would say
that it's a challenge. If you can start
from scratch it's always easier always.
As a traveler, what has changed about
this airport than say older airports
that were built pre 911, some of them
pre smartphone? So much of how we travel
has changed. What will when you walk
through this, what will it actually feel
like?
>> Um, it like a completely different
facility. So, we were built as a hub and
there were two separate buildings
separated by a half mile train. That's
gone now. So, we had two separate
security checkpoints. Now, we have one
much faster. We had two separate baggage
systems um and 8 miles of bag belt
connecting the two terminals. Customs
and border protection was in an odd
location. It just makes a lot more
sense. It looks fantastic. It represents
the region in a much more impactful way
as opposed to sort of thinking, "Oh god,
what happened here?" When you come to
the airport, it feels like, "Wow, I
wonder what else is beyond this." So
that's that's what we were going for was
stable costs for the airlines and
building Pittsburgh's airport. This is
an important conversation because there
are 151 billion dollars I believe in
capital needs for US airports that are
going to be necessary over the next
couple of years and it also comes in a
bigger conversation. Everyone who we've
had on the show talks about building
infrastructure about investing in
physical materials and the need for
people to actually put shovels in the
ground. I'm just wondering how difficult
you think some of the plans are going to
be on this scope and scale given the
limited supplies, given the limited
workforce. Maybe Pittsburgh has a good
ready to go workforce. A lot of places
don't have that. I mean, how long do you
think this is going to take or feasible
are some of these plans?
>> I think that it's first of all, it's
critical. We have airports that were
built in the 50s and 60s that haven't
been renovated since. So, you know, you
just to your point, it technology has
changed so much and the way that we even
move through facilities requires
different wiring, right? It just
requires different space to be able to
administer services and for people to
move around. So, I think it's going to
be tough, but I think it's necessary and
we better start because if we don't, we
just we continue to kick the can down
the road.
>> And there's an issue of financing. How
much is going to come from local and
federal governments and how much is
going to come from private investors
that actually want to get a piece of
this and what's going to be feasible
given some of the political uh
interference and discussions? I mean,
how difficult was that for you to figure
out some sort of palatable mix to the
public as well as that just made sense
fiscally? So no local taxpayer, no no
state taxpayer money is are in airports.
I mean we are required by the FAA to be
financially self self- sustaining. So uh
we floated bonds and really the airlines
back those bonds. So the critical the
critical stakeholder group here is do
the airlines believe in your plan? Are
they willing to support it and are they
willing to guarantee with their revenue
uh that they will fill in for any
operating cost deficit? And that's the
key. So if you run well then it it
should work. That said, I think that
there's uh in some airports that are
huge, the needs are just greater than
even the bonding capacity may require
and you may see more private investment
which we certainly see that in the New
York markets.
>> You also tapped the bipartisan federal
infrastructure bill. How much did you
have to use from that? Were you able to
use?
>> We were we were uh we I think we got
about $80 million in discretionary
grants. I mean, we were encouraged to
apply because we had shovel ready
projects and we our timing was really
perfect for that. So, like a lot we
competed just like every other airport
in the country did. There was a a block
of money set aside for medium-sized
airports and we would compete for that
every year.
>> The changing of the guard in Washington,
Biden administration, now you're
finishing this project during the Trump
administration. Have you seen any
changes in how you deal with uh
politicians and leaders in in DC? We,
you know, the day before the election,
both candidates were in Pittsburgh. So,
we are ground zero for bipartisan uh
working together and we go right down
the middle.
>> The president's going to Pennsylvania
tomorrow.
>> I'm not surprised. Uh we have we we
we're a swing state. We're a really
important state. We take it really
seriously that we are able to make sure
we can work in Washington at all times
because we have to. I mean, we have a we
have a really diverse uh population and
we've got to make sure everybody's
getting taken care of at all times at
both airports.
>> Are you excited about the potential for
another government shutdown come
January? [laughter]
>> I'm not sure. Excited is the word I
would use. Prepared. I would say
prepared.
>> What kind of preparation?
>> Well, you know, we just we make sure
that we are taking care of our federal
partners to the extent that we can. Uh
we did not have many calloffs. We have
really an extraordinary workforce in
Pittsburgh and between TSA, ATC and CBP
really we did not see any major
disruptions and I I give them a lot of
credit for that.
>> Christina Cassot, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Christina
Cassot, the CEO of the Pittsburgh
airport talking about the huge capital
needs. Really, this to me is the key
question. And how much are we talking
about AI data centers and how much is in
the roads and the airports and the other
things that need to get financed at a
time where there already is a pretty big
fiscal overhang and there already is a
lot of push back when it comes to uh
individuals and how much they're paying.
>> And to Christina's point, she had shovel
ready projects able to tap some of the
that legislation in Washington DC. If
you weren't prepared, how much harder
potentially is that going to be? Also,
Pittsburgh needs to prepare one huge
event next year. It's crazy I know this
given I'm not a football fan. They have
the NFL draft draft next year. So, they
have this brand new airport in time for
um you know all the stars to come
through.
>> You know, I just want to say that you
always say that you don't talk football
and in the past two weeks you've talked
more about football than I've ever had
on the show. Twitter, you know, people
exactly you just sort of pick it up in
the ether and the baseball stadium was
pretty awesome too in Pittsburgh. Coming
up is going to be Sevita Supermanian of
Bank of America looking ahead to 2026
with the firm expecting tepid gains in
the next year. Plus Danny Burgerer with
your morning movers. Confluence surging
after landing a sale [music] to IBM.
Those shares up 29% in pre-market
trading after making the announcement
official. More broadly, you are seeing
gains in futures across the board to
start off a new week. This is [music]
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> This does seem like we're possibly
getting the Santa Claus rally with
futures inflected upward after two
straight weeks of gains. Now 210 of a
percent gain on the S&P. You are seeing
a bit of dollar weakening on the heels
of some of the expectation for the
Federal Reserve later this [music] week
on Wednesday. 93% chance that they will
cut rates. We're seeing 116 on the Euro
Dollar cross yields just a little bit
higher but off earlier highs 4.14%
[music]
on the 10-year and copper continuing to
move higher to new records up 4/10en of
a percent [music] on the London Metals
Exchange 1 hour away from the cash open.
Here are your morning movers with
[music] Danny Burgerer. Danny, hey Lisa,
a little bit of deal news to bring you
this morning. Just about an hour ago IBM
confirming that it indeed will be buying
Confluence. It's an 11 billion deal.
Confluence they do something called data
streaming. It essentially allows AI
models to bring in data live rather than
clunkier like shipping it in oneoff. So
it's the kind of systems that
enterprises would need in order to
really run AI systems. Confluence
[music]
up 29%. The share price is going to be
$31 that IBM is buying it for. So we're
trading just under that premium. Uh
another kind of deal story this morning
that Microsoft will be getting or at
least is working with Broadcom to get
custom chips. So those shares are up 3%.
[music] Microsoft previously was working
with Marvel Technologies for custom
ships. So that switch means Marvel
falling by 6.3%. Staying in tech and AI
this morning. Coreweee those shares are
down 4% this morning in the last hour
reporting that they are putting out $2
billion of a convertible bond note. For
one, it's a dilutive event and for two,
it's this concern about the big tech
players in AI issuing more debt. So
those shares fall in the pre-market.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Danny pointing to
that core weave, this idea of how much
will the debt markets be willing to
finance not just the big tech players
but also some of the more peripheral and
lower rated ones. Turning to the Federal
Reserve, the final [clears throat] FOMC
meeting of the year kicking off
tomorrow. Bloomberg's Michael McKe joins
us now with what to expect. Mike,
division sort of the key central word
heading into this meeting.
>> Yeah, the Fed's more divided than they
have been in years, but of course the
issues are tougher than they have been
in years. with both sides of their
mandate missing. Which way do they go?
We're going to be watching that. But
before we get there, there are some
other data points worth mentioning. I
put the Supreme Court FTC on there
because they're hearing arguments about
whether the president can fire the chair
of the Federal Trade Commission. That
will have implications for Fed Governor
Lisa Cook, whose case will be heard next
month. Uh they're both fall sort of
under the same presidential claim that
he has power to fire anybody in the
administration. Tuesday we get October
jolts. Now we don't get the jobs report
till next week. So at this point that
may be the best we've got in terms of
government data on employment. And then
Wednesday the ECI uh Kevin Hassid who
may be the next Fed chair was just on
the other channel talking about the fact
that uh the inflation numbers are up but
you can offset that by rising income. So
our incomes rising. We'll find out what
happened in the third quarter and as you
mentioned we get the Fed decision
Thursday. jobless claims and trade data.
And Friday, they're back. The blackout
period's over and we're going to start
hearing from Fed officials again. One
other data point I want to note today,
and that was the Chinese trade figures
came out, and China had a blowout
November. They uh crossed $1 trillion in
trade surplus for the year, which is a
record for them. Exports to the US with
the trade war fell 29%, but to the rest
of the world, they were up 5.9%. They're
not selling here. They're dumping it
everywhere else. Bad news for everyone
else. And the records show China's
bought two and a quarter million tons of
US soybeans, but in their agreement with
the president, they committed to buying
12 million by the end of the year. So,
they either got a lot of buying to do or
they're not going to live up to it.
Those are all the things we're watching
this week, but of course, as you say,
the Fed is the story.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much for
being with us as always. And we'll be
catching up with you throughout the
week. The last time that we saw four Fed
officials on the FOMC descent was 30
years ago. So definitely interesting to
see whether we're going to see something
similar. Turning back to the markets,
the team at Bank of America expecting
the S&P 500 rally to fizzle out in 2026
with a year-end target of 7100. It seems
extremely low considering some of the
other predictions coming out of Wall
Street houses. Sevita Supermanian of
Bank of America writing, "We expect
doubledigit earnings growth versus tepid
price returns in 2026. We're bullish on
capex versus more worried about
consumption." Sevita joins us now.
Sevita, wonderful to see you. Thank you
for being here.
>> Great to be here.
>> So, how much push back do you get for
not being bullish enough?
>> Well, you know, I think it's hard to get
a lot of buy in on a on a less
optimistic message when the market
continues to move higher. Um, you know,
clients that we speak to tell us, you
know, the ones that are more bullish
than we are, which are most of our
clients, [laughter]
um, tell us that, you know, it's
liquidity is still ample. We've got this
Fed cutting interest rates. You know,
the consumer is fine. And I guess on all
of those factors, right now everything
looks okay, but I think the direction of
travel next year is worse rather than
better on all of those factors, except
for maybe capex. I think capex could
actually pick up demonstrabably from
here and broaden out beyond just tech.
But in other areas, I'm worried about,
you know, if AI is so amazing, isn't it
going to take a bunch of jobs? And what
does that do to that middle income
consumer cohort which has been the
engine of growth? So, lots of things
swirling around, but I think net net I
think the direction of travel from here
to the end of next year is worse rather
than better in terms of liquidity
provisions from central banks across the
world. I mean, think about it. This year
we had over a 100 cuts from central
banks. Next year we're slated to have
something like 80. Still high, but not
as good. And when you think about just,
you know, c uh tech companies, we're
heading into a little bit of an air
pocket when you think about actually
monetizing AI spend. So, I think that
this just gets harder to see great gains
coming from the S&P.
>> When you look at AI, it almost sounds
like doom doom for you. We're doomed if
it's a bubble. We're also doomed if it's
so good because that means there's going
to be huge issues for the labor market.
>> Well, yeah. I think something's got to
give, right? I mean, you can't have
everything. And for the last five years,
we've had a really strong, surprisingly
resilient consumer. And we've had this
tech, you know, theme running the
market. And today, it seems like those
two bullish themes are fighting with
each other. And I don't know which wins,
but I think this year it's going to be
hard to see real monetization
of AI, you know, tools because power is
the bottleneck and it's going to take a
while for that to come online, right? I
mean, this isn't just like turn it on.
Yeah. So, there's a mismatch and then
and in the meantime, companies are sort
of stalling in hiring because they're,
you know, we're waiting to see how great
these tools will be. we have, you know,
we're we're sort of fully staffed. So, I
think there is a a little bit of a a a
period of time where we're just sort of
sitting there waiting to see what
happens. And in that period, the most
insecure consumer cohort is that younger
professional white collar services
employee that has been the driver of
consumption growth for the last 30 years
or so.
>> But the consumer has still been
resilient. It's been tough. And we even
see this administration wanting to pivot
to talk a lot about affordability
starting tomorrow. Um and they're trying
to do maybe potentially some policy
maneuvers.
>> So this is where it gets interesting.
You're right. I think where we could see
strength in the consumer is in that
lower income cohort which is really kind
of a consensus
short at this point. If you think about
consumer staples as a sector, it's been
a pretty rough place to be for for the
last couple of years. But now we've got
this, you know, this administration
that's really focused on, you know, the
midterm elections are coming up. We've
got, you know, a still kind of a um a
not great lower income consumer cohort.
So I think that if anything we see
policy that help that uh that spending
segment of the market which is great in
terms of numbers but that is that
segment of the market is a smaller
contribution to overall consumption.
>> This is fascinating and it kind of
speaks to what we're seeing right now
which is the Russell 2000 outperforming.
I mean ultimately how much does this
lead to a number of smaller companies or
whether it's the dollar trees or the
dollar general that are doing better uh
than a lot of people had expected. How
much do you see that as a durable trend
based on the political backdrop for next
year in addition to a shift away from
the Magnificent Seven akin to what Eddie
Ardeni was talking about in his latest
note? Oh yeah, I think that small caps
could do quite well. I mean again, you
got to be selective because there are a
decent chunk of small caps that are just
sort of sitting in the Russell 2000
because they couldn't hack it in a 5%
interest rate environment. Um, so I
think those are the ones that you want
to kind of think hard about. But in in
terms of smaller industrials, maybe even
smaller consumer stocks that haven't had
a bid in a very long time, we're
actually seeing some interesting things.
Um, I'm I'm we we actually made a big
sector change that almost everyone
disagrees with us on, which is we
downgraded consumer discretionary and
upgraded consumer staples. And it's kind
of along the lines of what's going to
happen next for the consumer. Policy is
going to be more bullish for that lower
income cohort. Fed cuts are more bullish
for lower income. Whereas middle and
upper income, the you know the the
assets that matter, housing, uh stock
market, uh financial gains are all
priced on the long end of the curve. So
that's where I think you got to be more
careful in thinking what happens at the
long end and how do asset returns, how
do home prices continue to drive that
wealth effect that we've seen um you
know really contributing to a healthy
consumer. Meanwhile, as we watch uh the
potential Fed easing, albeit maybe not
as much as this year, there has been a
huge issuance of debt to finance mergers
and acquisitions to finance all sorts of
expansions.
>> Yeah.
>> Does that bolster or hinder the S&P 500?
Look, I think the number one uh driver
of a higher equity risk premium or said
differently, a lower multiple is
leverage. And what we're seeing is that
companies, especially these sort of
perfect tech companies with great
balance sheets, are now starting to
raise capital. They're starting to get
more levered rather than less lever. So
again, the direction of travel, things
look great right now. tech companies,
healthy balance sheets, but on the
margin they're getting worse rather than
better.
>> So, you think that going into 2026, even
with debt markets wide open, even with
companies able to finance themselves,
you don't see that elevating their uh
their valuations in a material way? No,
I don't. I think I mean even if you look
at tech capital intensity right now like
so just how much of their operating cash
flow are they spending on capex tech
companies are now equivalent to or worse
than oil majors which is weird right I
mean we think of oil majors like these
are you know big oil companies spend a
lot of money now tech companies are
spending as much or more of their
operating cash flow on building out
capacity and I think that's a new theme
that's generally accompanied by multiple
compression. So that's where we see this
sort of handoff between other sectors.
That's not to say there are lots of, you
know, bullish themes within the S&P 500.
And in fact, I like energy. I like
financials. I like consumer staples,
healthcare. I think there are a lot of
places to go within the S&P 500, but
it's a pretty different set of stocks
than what's worked so far. Would you
feel unnerved or would it be a risk if
these tech companies weren't spending at
that level given what everyone projects
is needed AI
>> roll out? Well, that's the other thing
is that you know in 2023 we got through
a hiking cycle and tech companies were
able to get less capital intensive. So
they cut capbacks, cut heads, did a huge
buyback. It was great, right? They they
supported their stock price. Whereas
today, I think they have less options
because we're in this arms race with
other countries to build out AI to get
that power bottleneck resolved. And
there aren't as many options for these
companies. They're more levered. They
can't necessarily cut capex as easily.
So, to your point, I mean, I think it
would be potentially negative if they
cut capex, but on the flip side, the
fact that they can't is even more
negative. It cuts into their
optionality. Are we entering a new phase
of equity market gains over the next 5
to 10 years where they just are less
than they have been because there is
less money going into the financial
system and more into the real world in
terms of actually building out the
infrastructure that we need for all of
these things. Are we entering that in
2026?
>> I think we might be. I mean, it's hard
to call for these like massive
dislocations, but if you look at where
we are today, it looks a little bit more
like the 80s or 90s, right? I mean, it's
like we're we're much less global. We
are focused on productivity, which is
great. That's a great source of returns
and margin stability. Um, but there
aren't as many levers. I I suppose if we
go back to QE and zero rates, we could
see a replay of 2010, but I think that
would be negative for the equity risk
premium. I think that would introduce a
whole lot of uncertainty. So, yeah, I do
think we're in an environment where the
drivers could be shifting from just
consumption and services in the US to
more making stuff and manufacturing,
which is, you know, again, something we
haven't necessarily experienced in our
investing careers. Svita, wonderful to
see you. Thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Svita Supermanian
of Bank of America here in New York.
Right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. [music]
Here is your Bloomberg briefs. President
Trump posting on Truth Social that'll
sign an executive order on AI regulation
this week. Trump [music] writing, "There
must be only one rule book if we are
going to continue to lead in AI. That
won't last long if we are going to have
50 states, [music] many of them bad
actors, involved in rules and the
approval process. A lot of people trying
to figure out the meaning behind it,
hoping for more [music] details later
this morning. Meanwhile, JP Morgan
tapping Berkshire Hathaway's Todd
Combmes to head it strategic investment
group. At Bergkshire, Combmes helped to
oversee parts of the company's $283
[music]
billion equity portfolio alongside
Warren Buffett and Ted Wesler. The move
comes after a shakeup at Buffett's firm
as the company prepares for [music] his
retirement. In sports, the Kansas City
Chiefs have lost four of five games
after falling to the [music] Houston
Houston Texans. Elsewhere, the Green Bay
Packers beat the Chicago Bears to halt
their win streak, while the Pittsburgh
Steelers upset the Baltimore Ravens 27
[music] to22 to reclaim the division
lead. And here with us, our football
expert Amir Herd, who always talks about
how little she knows, but yet has been
following all of this. Well, I just know
because people like Muhammad Alien and
my dad and sorry about the Jets.
>> Okay, thank you. Thank you for that PSA.
It was very sweet and noted. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo as IBM is set to
acquire data infrastructure firm
Confluent. Those [music] shares surging
almost 30% while IBM lower by about
8/10en of a percent in pre-market
[music] trading. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Liquidity is still ample. We've got this
Fed cutting interest rates. You know,
the consumer is fine. And I guess on all
of those factors, right now everything
looks okay, but I think the direction of
travel next year is worse rather than
better on all of those factors except
for maybe capback. Net net, I think the
direction of travel from here to the end
of next year is worse rather than
better. That was Sevita Supermanian of
Bank of America with a 7100 call on the
S&P 500 for the end of next year. Looks
like we're trying to get there by the
end of this year with futures positive
climbing toward new all-time highs at
68.88 on the S&P futures up about a
tenth of a percent almost 210 of a
percent looking at a little bit of
dollar softness. Yields inflected higher
10-year 4.1415%
in terms of rounding up and copper at an
all-time high and continuing [music] to
climb counting down to the opening bell.
Here is the trading diary for the week
ahead today. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that President Trump will
unveil a$12 billion farm aid [music]
package. Tomorrow, Jolt's data on
Wednesday, an FOMC rate decision
followed by Fed Chair Jay Powell's press
conference. Plus, earnings from Oracle.
Thursday, another round of jobless
claims. Friday, Fed speak returns. We'll
hear from Pollson Hammock and Goulsby.
Right now though, in markets, all eyes
on big tech for a variety of reasons.
latest deal, IBM announcing uh to
acquire data infrastructure firm
Confluent for $31 per share, valuing the
company at $11 billion. This is the
biggest deal in IBM's recent history as
it pivots toward AI demands. Bloomberg's
Ed Ledllo joining us now from San
Francisco with more. Ed, does this come
as a surprise or is this just building
on a slew of deals that we've seen from
IBM in particular over the past couple
of years? Yeah, IBM's used M&A a lot to
kind of reposition the company for the
AI era. It's a surprise for what it is.
It's an enterprise and data focused
company and a lot of the M&A that we've
seen is focused on the physical on data
center infrastructure. Confluence is
really interesting. I'm trying to think
of an analogy that kind of would make
this accessible to the surveillance
audience. But think of it as like the
plumbing for data, real time data. So if
you are a heavy industries company or
even a software company that the the
issue that we found recently with these
like very very large frontier models is
that they're not relevant to the
companies that want to use them. They
have hundreds of billions of parameters
but the data sets they're trained on
don't make them that useful. And so IBM
has this platform Watson X which
basically allows you to build or make
use of existing smaller models. And the
Confluent piece just allows you in real
time to pipe data in. Think sensor data
in a factory that will allow you to do
something of use. $9 billion deal, 11
billion enterprise value including debt.
Not the biggest in IBM's history, but it
is the biggest as you say in most recent
history. Um, and it's kind of where the
market's looking right now. Useful data.
>> There are a couple of sides of the AI
story that are kind of percolating into
the end of the year. On one hand, you
have of course just the mergers and
acquisitions and this question of the
race to acquire the greatest volume of
both clients and energy to power your
sources. At the other hand, there's the
government and how much the government's
going to get involved. President Trump
truthing this morning saying there must
be only one rule book if we are going to
continue to lead in artificial
intelligence. I will be doing a one rule
executive order this week talking about
uh the issue with getting different
approvals from each state. What do we
know about what this could be referring
to?
>> We we don't know a lot. I've already had
a few conversations with sources that
basically private industry, especially
those that are around and engaged with
the president are very much in favor of
this one set of rules. That's obvious,
right, that the private sector would
support this. If you go back to November
18th, there was a Bloomberg report on an
executive order being considered by the
president that would allow for the
Department of Justice to go and take
action against states who had state AI
policy that the administration deemed
unconstitutional.
That was an interesting precursor to
what we assume will be some kind of EO
for a blanket federal framework for AI
rules. Much of what this administration
has done so far in the realm of AI has
been a national strategy to deregulate
to allow the companies involved to move
faster particularly on data center
infrastructure. That's very different
from a set of rules that allows a
software company in particular to put
its AI technology into the real world.
Um but that is you know clearly what's
the focus here of this White House. Ed,
who do you think is leading the charge
in the tech space when it comes to
pushing the administration to adopt a
framework like this? I mean, we should
note that Congress has yet to agree on a
regulatory framework when it comes to
AI.
>> Correct.
>> Uh, well, there are those in the
immediate orbit, uh, Sheream Krishnan
and David Saxs, the AI advisers to the
president, and I'm sure that they will
be having a role. There was the
confirmed reporting that Anthropic CEO
Dario Amade met with the president very
recently or with the White House at
least and discussed these kind of
broader issues as you know AMH like the
access of industry to the president um
you well you tell me is unprecedented in
some respects. I would note that if you
go back to my November 18th example, the
report on an EO that would give the DOJ
a remmit to go after state legislation
or state rules that the the White House
felt unconstitutional.
There have been very vocal Republican
voices at the state level, Republican
governors that actually don't want this
White House to do that. They think it's
important that there is some state power
in oversight of AI. So politically, it's
not universal, particularly within the
Republican party. So that should be
interesting what we hear today uh
potentially alongside other
announcements from President Trump. Ed
Ledllo, thank you so much for being with
us this morning. Really appreciate uh
that reporting and context. And Amry,
this is the reason why people are
curious exactly how this is going to get
articulated given the disagreements even
within the Republican party potentially
and what it means for Congress and their
regulatory framework and what it means
for individual states. This is going to
set up a huge fight between the federal
government and some specific states. And
to Ed's point, there's Republican
governors who are against this because
they have state sovereignty. You know, I
remember a point when it was Republicans
used to continuously talk about the fact
that we should leave more power up to
the states and not to the federal
government in Washington DC.
>> Definitely a pivot point for both
parties in terms of just what they stand
for and how they kind of configure
themselves going forward. Coming up
tomorrow, we've gone from the Sevita
Supermanium view of things. Then we go
to the biggest bull on Wall Street side
of things. John Sulfus of Oppenheimer.
Meanwhile, we're also speaking with Gene
Seroka of the Port of Los Angeles.
[music] Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Woods and Michelle Weaver of Morgan
Stanley as [music] we get some job
openings data as we head toward that
Federal Reserve meeting on Wednesday.
And of course, Oracle earnings after
[music] the bell. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Thanks for being
with us.